Accessibility - W3C 
 <> W3C

 * Standards <> 
 * Participate <> 
 * Membership <> 
 * About W3C <> 
 * 
Site Navigation

Web Design and Applications  <>

 * HTML & CSS <> 
 * JavaScript Web APIs <> 
 * Graphics <> 
 * Audio and Video <> 
 * Accessibility <> 
 * Internationalization <> 
 * Mobile Web <> 
 * Privacy <> 
 * Math on the Web <> 

 * Skip <> 
 * W3C <> » 
 * Standards <> » 
 * Web Design and Applications <> » 
 * Accessibility 
Accessibility

 * On this page → 
 * why <> • 
 * what <> • 
 * how <> • 
 * wai <> • 
 * learn more <> • 
 * recent press releases <> • 
 * current status of specifications <> and groups <> 
The power of the Web is in its universality.
 Access by everyone regardless of disability is an essential aspect.
Tim Berners-Lee, W3C Director and inventor of the World Wide Web

The Web is fundamentally designed to work for all people, whatever their 
hardware, software, language, culture, location, or physical or mental ability. 
When the Web meets this goal, it is accessible to people with a diverse range 
of hearing, movement, sight, and cognitive ability.

Thus the impact of disability is radically changed on the Web because the Web 
removes barriers to communication and interaction that many people face in the 
physical world. However, when websites, web technologies, or web tools are 
badly designed, they can create barriers that exclude people from using the Web.

The mission of the Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) <> is to lead the Web to 
its full potential to be accessible, enabling people with disabilities to 
participate equally on the Web.

See below for:

 * why: the case for web accessibility <> 
 * what: examples of web accessibility <> 
 * how: make your website and web tools accessible <> 
 * Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) at W3C <> 
 * learn more <> 
 <>Why: The Case for Web Accessibility 

It is essential that the Web be accessible in order to provide equal access 
and equal opportunity to people with diverse abilities. Indeed, theUN 
Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 
<http://www.un.org/disabilities/default.asp?navid=12&pid=150> recognizes access 
to information and communications technologies, including the Web, asa basic 
human right. 

Accessibility supports social inclusion for people with disabilities as well as
others <http://www.w3.org/WAI/bcase/soc.html#groups>, such as older people 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/bcase/soc.html#older>, people in rural areas, and people 
in developing countries.

There is also a strong business case for accessibility. Accessibility overlaps 
with other best practices such asmobile web design 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/mobile/>, device independence, multi-modal interaction, 
usability,design for older users <http://www.w3.org/WAI/bcase/soc.html#older>, 
andsearch engine optimization (SEO) <http://www.w3.org/WAI/bcase/fin.html#seo>. 
Case studies show that accessible websites have better search results, reduced 
maintenance costs, and increased audience reach, among other benefits.
Developing a Web Accessibility Business Case for Your Organization <> details 
the social, technical, financial, and legal benefits of web accessibility.

What: Examples of Web Accessibility

 Properly designed websites and web tools can be used by people with 
disabilities <http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/people-use-web.php>. However, 
currently many sites and tools are developed with accessibility barriers that 
make it difficult or impossible for some people to use them. Below are just a 
few examples.

Alternative Text for Images

Alt text is the classic example. Images should include equivalent alternative 
text <http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/text-equiv.html> in the 
markup/code.

If alt text isn't provided for images, the image information is inaccessible, 
for example, to people who cannot see and use a screen reader that reads aloud 
the information on a page, including the alt text for the visual image.

When equivalent alt text is provided, the information is available to everyone 
to people who are blind, as well as to people who turned off images on their 
mobile phone to lower bandwidth charges, people in a rural area with low 
bandwidth who turned off images to speed download, and others. It's also 
available to technologies that cannot see the image, such as search engines.

Keyboard Input

Some people cannot use a mouse, including many older users with limited fine 
motor control. An accessible website does not rely on the mouse; it providesall 
functionality via a keyboard 
<http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/keyboard-operation.html>. Then 
people with disabilities can useassistive technologies 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/users/involving#at> that mimic the keyboard, such as 
speech input.

Transcripts for Podcasts
 <http://www.w3.org/WAI/highlights/200606wcag2interview.html> 
Just as images aren't available to people who can't see, audio files aren't 
available to people who can't hear. Providing a text transcript makes the audio 
information accessible to people who are deaf or hard of hearing, as well as to 
search engines and other technologies that can't hear.

It's easy and relatively inexpensive for website developers to provide 
transcripts for podcasts and audio files. There are alsotranscription services 
<http://www.uiaccess.com/transcripts/transcript_services.html> that create text 
transcripts in HTML format.

 <>How: Make Your Website and Web Tools Accessible 

Most of the basics of accessibility are even easier and less expensive than 
providing transcripts. However, the proper techniques are poorly integrated 
into some web tools, education, and development processes. If you are new to 
accessibility, it takes some time and effort to learn the common issues and 
solutions. A starting place is theIntroduction to Web Accessibility 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/accessibility.php>. 

Some accessibility barriers are more complicated to avoid and the solutions 
take more development time and effort. W3C WAI provides extensive resources to 
help, such asUnderstanding WCAG 2.0: A guide to understanding and implementing 
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 
<http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/>. 

Using authoring tools that support accessibility 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/impl/software> makes it easier for website developers. 
Browsers also play a role in accessibility.Essential Components of Web 
Accessibility <http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/components.php> explains the 
relationships between the different components of web development and 
interaction.

Accessibility is essential for developers and organizations that want to 
create high quality websites and web tools, and not exclude people from using 
their products and services.

 <>Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) at W3C 

The W3C Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) <http://www.w3.org/WAI/> brings 
together people from industry, disability organizations, government, and 
research labs from around the world todevelop guidelines 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/w3c-process.php> and resources 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/Resources/> to help make the Web accessible to people 
with disabilities including auditory, cognitive, neurological, physical, 
speech, and visual disabilities.

WAI's coverage of web accessibility includes 'web content 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/wcag.php>' (websites and web applications), 
authoring tools <http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/atag.php> (such as content 
management systems (CMS) and blog software), browsers and other 'user agents 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/uaag.php>', and W3C technical specifications 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/PF/>, including WAI-ARIA 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/aria.php> for accessible rich Internet 
applications.

 We invite individuals and organizations to participate in WAI 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/participation> by volunteering to implement, promote, 
and review guidelines; contributing to theWAI Interest Group 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/IG/>; and participating in Working Groups 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/groups.html>.


Learn More

WAI provides a wide range of resources on different aspects of web 
accessibility standards, education, implementation, and policy, including:

 * Introduction to Web Accessibility 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/accessibility.php> 
 * Essential Components of Web Accessibility 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/components.php> 
 * How People with Disabilities Use the Web 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/people-use-web> 
 * Improving the Accessibility of Your Web Site 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/impl/improving> 
 * Managing Accessibility <http://www.w3.org/WAI/managing.html> 
 * Evaluating Web Accessibility <http://www.w3.org/WAI/eval/> 
 * Standards, guidelines, and techniques for making accessible 
 * websites: Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/wcag.php> 
 * authoring tools: Authoring Tool Accessibility Guidelines (ATAG) 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/atag.php> 
 * browsers: User Agent Accessibility Guidelines (UAAG) 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/uaag.php> 
 * web applications: Accessible Rich Internet Applications (WAI-ARIA) 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/aria.php> 
 * Developing a Web Accessibility Business Case for Your Organization <> 
 * WAI home page highlights <http://www.w3.org/WAI/> 
 * and more WAI Resources <http://www.w3.org/WAI/Resources/> 
Recent W3C Press Releases and Member Testimonials <> 

 * 
W3C's Accessible Rich Internet Applications (WAI-ARIA) 1.0 Expands 
Accessibility of the Open Web Platform <https://www.w3.org/2014/03/aria.html.en>

20 March 2014

Recent Press
  18 June 
Knight Blog <http://www.knightfoundation.org/blogs/knightblog/> 
 “The World Wide Web Consortium at 20: Moving the Web toward its ‘full 
potential’”  
<http://www.knightfoundation.org/blogs/knightblog/2014/6/18/world-wide-web-consortium-20-moving-web-toward-its-full-potential/>
  31 March 
IT World <http://www.itworld.com/> 
 “Accessible technology professionals will soon be able to get certified”  
<http://www.itworld.com/application-management/412009/accessible-technology-professionals-will-soon-be-able-get-certified>
  26 March 
Digital Journal <http://www.digitaljournal.com/> 
 “The Apache Software Foundation Celebrates Document Freedom Day 2014”  
<http://www.digitaljournal.com/pr/1812212> 
  24 March 
IT World <http://www.itworld.com/> 
 “The W3C makes Accessible Rich Internet Applications a web standard”  
<http://www.itworld.com/application-management/410963/w3c-makes-accessible-rich-internet-applications-web-standard>

Current Status of Specifications

Learn more about the current status of specifications related to: 

 * Accessibility (All) <> 
 * Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) <> 
 * Accessible Rich Internet Applications (WAI-ARIA) <> 
 * User Agent Accessibility Guidelines (UAAG) <> 
 * Authoring Tool Accessibility Guidelines (ATAG) <> 
 * Evaluation and Report Language (EARL) <> 
 * IndieUI <> 
These W3C Groups <> are working on the related specifications: 

 * Authoring Tool Accessibility Guidelines Working Group 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/AU/> 
 * Education and Outreach Working Group <http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/> 
 * Evaluation and Repair Tools Working Group <http://www.w3.org/WAI/ER/> 
 * Protocols and Formats Working Group <http://www.w3.org/WAI/PF/> 
 * User Agent Accessibility Guidelines Working Group 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/UA/> 
 * Web Content Accessibility Guidelines Working Group 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/> 
 * HTML Working Group <http://www.w3.org/html/wg/> 
 * Independent User Interface (Indie UI) Working Group 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/IndieUI/> 
 * Research and Development Working Group <http://www.w3.org/WAI/RD/> 
Current Status

 * Accessibility (All) <> 
 * Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) <> 
 * Accessible Rich Internet Applications (WAI-ARIA) <> 
 * User Agent Accessibility Guidelines (UAAG) <> 
 * Authoring Tool Accessibility Guidelines (ATAG) <> 
 * Evaluation and Report Language (EARL) <> 
 * IndieUI <> 
Use It

 * How People with Disabilities Use the Web <http://www.w3.org/WAI/Resources/> 
 * Improving the Accessibility of Your Web Site 
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/impl/improving> 
 * Managing Accessibility <http://www.w3.org/WAI/managing.html> 
 * Evaluating Web Accessibility <http://www.w3.org/WAI/eval/> 
 * More resources… <> 
Logos

 * WCAG 2 <http://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG2-Conformance.html> 
Acknowledgements

Editors: Shawn Lawton Henry and Liam McGee.
 Contributors: Shadi Abou-Zahra, Andrew Arch, Alan Chuter, Sylvie Duchateau, 
Jack Welsh, William Loughborough, Catherine Roy, Sharron Rush, Yeliz Yesilada, 
and otherparticipants <http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/EOWG-members> of the Education 
and Outreach Working Group (EOWG <http://www.w3.org/WAI/EO/>). 

Footer Navigation

Navigation

 * Home <> 
 * Standards <> 
 * Participate <> 
 * Membership <> 
 * About W3C <> 
Contact W3C

 * Contact <> 
 * Help and FAQ <> 
 * Sponsor / Donate <> 
 * Site Map <> 
 * Feedback <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/site-comments/> 
W3C Updates

 *  <http://twitter.com/W3C> 
Copyright © 2013 W3C ® (MIT <http://www.csail.mit.edu/>, ERCIM 
<http://www.ercim.eu/>, Keio <http://www.keio.ac.jp/>, Beihang 
<http://ev.buaa.edu.cn/>) Usage policies apply <>. 
