Meta Formats - W3C 
 <> W3C

 * Standards <> 
 * Participate <> 
 * Membership <> 
 * About W3C <> 
 * 
Site Navigation

Web Architecture  <>

 * Protocol and Meta Format Considerations <> 
 * Meta Formats <> 
 * Protocols <> 
 * Identifiers <> 
 * Architecture Principles <> 

 * Skip <> 
 * W3C <> » 
 * Standards <> » 
 * Web Architecture <> » 
 * Meta Formats 
Meta Formats

 * On this page → 
 * what is xml <> • 
 * what is rdf <> • 
 * what is json <> • 
 * current status of specifications <> and groups <> 
 Metaformats are generic formats that people can adopt when creating their own 
application-specific languages without having to reinvent syntax. The terms 
that people use to specialise a metaformat are often called vocabularies. 
Examples of metaformats areXML <http://www.w3.org/standards/xml/>, RDF 
<http://www.w3.org/standards/semanticweb/> and JSON 
<http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4627>. Metaformats offer advantages over creating a 
custom syntax for a language because they can be processed by generic tools, 
and languages that use them can be understood by people who have learned about 
the metaformat.

Metaformats usually have a schema language that can be used to define or 
describe a vocabulary that uses that metaformat, and query or transformation 
languages that can be used to access information within documents that use that 
metaformat.

What is XML?

XML provides a simple standardised way to serialize information representable 
as labelled trees with annotations and cross-references, allowing a free choice 
of markup vocabulary. This not only makes it well-suited for human-authored 
documents, particularly given its facility for mixed content (plain and 
marked-up text) and built-in support for Unicode, but also means it is a useful 
syntax for all kinds of machine-to-machine data transfer.XHTML 
<http://www.w3.org/standards/webdesign/htmlcss>, Docbook <http://docbook.org/> 
andDITA <http://dita.xml.org/> are examples of XML-based languages primarily 
intended for documents; machine-to-machine uses includeAtom 
<https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4287>, UPnP <http://www.upnp.org/> (for 
networked device discovery) andAEMP 
<http://www.constructionequipment.com/aemp-releases-telematics-data-standard> 
(for construction equipment). There are several schema languages for XML, 
includingXML Schema <http://www.w3.org/standards/xml/schema> and RELAX NG 
<http://relaxng.org/>, which enable XML-based languages to be validated. There 
are also generic methods for querying and transforming XML throughXPath and XSLT
 <http://www.w3.org/standards/xml/transformation>, XQuery 
<http://www.w3.org/standards/xml/query>, and XML Processing pipelines 
<http://www.w3.org/standards/xml/processing>. 

What is RDF?

RDF is a language designed for the expression of arbitrary information about 
arbitrary things. It has variant surface syntaxes includingTurtle 
<http://www.w3.org/TR/turtle/> and RDFa <http://www.w3.org/standards/techs/rdfa>
, the latter allowing embedding in HTML and thus promoting machine readability 
of information found in HTML documents. RDF is useful for expressing graph 
structured information in which each entity is linkable through aURL 
<http://www.w3.org/standards/webarch/identifiers> and is thus the core data 
model for theSemantic Web <http://www.w3.org/standards/semanticweb/>. Common 
RDF vocabularies, which can be used with any RDF syntax, areDublin Core Terms 
<http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/>, FOAF 
<http://xmlns.com/foaf/spec/>, SKOS <http://www.w3.org/standards/techs/skos>, 
andschema.org <http://schema.org/>. 

RDF vocabularies can be described by RDF Schemas 
<http://www.w3.org/standards/techs/rdf> or OWL Ontologies 
<http://www.w3.org/standards/techs/owl>. These are primarily used for 
inference: to deduce new information from data expressed in RDF. More flexible 
reasoning for RDF can be described usingRIF 
<http://www.w3.org/standards/techs/rif>. Data stored within RDF stores, known 
as triplestores, can be queried and updated usingSPARQL 
<http://www.w3.org/standards/semanticweb/query>. 

What is JSON?

JSON is a metaformat that is useful for expressing tree-based data structures. 
JSON's key benefit is that it tersely expresses the kinds of data structures 
commonly used in programming languages, particularly Javascript, which makes it 
very easy to create and consume.

JSON is rarely used with a declarative schema and it is usually processed by 
being parsed into the native data structures used by a particular programming 
language. However, there are several query languages currently under 
development, includingJSON Path <http://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/>, Jaql 
<https://code.google.com/p/jaql/wiki/JaqlOverview>, and JSONiq 
<http://jsoniq.org/>. 

Current Status of Specifications

Learn more about the current status of specifications related to: 

 * XML <> 
 * RDF <> 
 * XHTML Modularization <> 
These W3C Groups <> are working on the related specifications: 

 * Government Linked Data Working Group <http://www.w3.org/2011/gld/> 
 * Linked Data Platform (LDP) Working Group <http://www.w3.org/2012/ldp/> 
 * RDF Working Group <http://www.w3.org/2011/rdf-wg/> 
 * RDFa Working Group <http://www.w3.org/2010/02/rdfa/> 
 * Semantic Web Interest Group <http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/interest/> 
 * Technical Architecture Group <http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/> 
 * XML Core Working Group <http://www.w3.org/XML/Core/> 
 * XML Processing Model Working Group <http://www.w3.org/XML/Processing/> 
Current Status

 * XML <> 
 * RDF <> 
 * XHTML Modularization <> 
Use It

 * Tutorials 
 * Business Case 
 * Software 
Validators

 * RDF <http://www.w3.org/RDF/Validator/> 
Footer Navigation

Navigation

 * Home <> 
 * Standards <> 
 * Participate <> 
 * Membership <> 
 * About W3C <> 
Contact W3C

 * Contact <> 
 * Help and FAQ <> 
 * Sponsor / Donate <> 
 * Site Map <> 
 * Feedback <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/site-comments/> 
W3C Updates

 *  <http://twitter.com/W3C> 
Copyright © 2013 W3C ® (MIT <http://www.csail.mit.edu/>, ERCIM 
<http://www.ercim.eu/>, Keio <http://www.keio.ac.jp/>, Beihang 
<http://ev.buaa.edu.cn/>) Usage policies apply <>. 
