Vertical Applications - W3C 
 <> W3C

 * Standards <> 
 * Participate <> 
 * Membership <> 
 * About W3C <> 
 * 
Site Navigation

Semantic Web  <>

 * Vertical Applications <> 
 * Inference <> 
 * Query <> 
 * Ontologies <> 
 * Data <> 

 * Skip <> 
 * W3C <> » 
 * Standards <> » 
 * Semantic Web <> » 
 * Vertical Applications 
Vertical Applications

 * On this page → 
 * what are vertical applications <> • 
 * what vertical applications are used for <> • 
 * examples <> • 
 * learn more <> • 
 * current status of specifications <> and groups <> 
What are Vertical Applications?

Vertical applications is the term used at W3C to denote particular, generic 
application areas, specific communities, etc, that explore how W3C technologies 
(e.g., Semantic Web technologies) can help their operations, improve their 
efficiencies, provide better user experiences, etc. Some of these application 
areas may decide to form some sort a group at W3C to cooperate with other W3C 
members to explore these possibilities further. Examples for such vertical 
applications that have contact with W3C on different levels are health care and 
life sciences, social spaces, digital libraries, financial services, oil & gas 
exploration, or e-Government.

What are Vertical Applications Used For?

Apart from the inherent advantages for a particular vertical application area 
to get a better familiarity with a particular W3C technology, these groups also 
provide valuable feedbacks on the technologies themselves. Vertical 
applications may bring forward specific and sometimes highly non-trivial use 
cases, requirements in terms of, say, the expressivity ofvocabulary <> or query 
<> languages, efficiency considerations for inferences <>, etc. Work on the 
second generations of languages like OWL2 or SPARQL1.1, or the work on R2RML, 
has been greatly motivated by the feedbacks provided by these vertical 
applications.

Examples

A good example is the The Health Care and Life Science Interest Group <>. It 
has been set up, in 2005, to explore the usability of Semantic Web technologies 
in area like drug discovery, patient care management and reporting, publication 
of scientific knowledge, drug approval procedures, etc. The group has produced 
several demonstrations, publications, organized workshops and conferences, and 
has succeeded in turning this particular application area into one of the most 
active user communities of Semantic Web technologies. Most major drug research 
companies, university labs and research center working in the area, and 
specialized tool providers participated in this work. The feedbacks provided by 
this group was also significant for Semantic Web technologies; as an example 
the definition of some of the OWL2 Profiles was strongly influenced by the
ontologies and vocabularies <> developed by this community. 

Learn More

The Semantic Web community maintains a list of books 
<http://esw.w3.org/topic/SwBooks> on a W3C Wiki page. Some of those books are 
introductory in nature while others are conference proceedings or textbook that 
address more advanced topics. Details ofrecent and upcoming Semantic Web 
related talks <http://www.w3.org/2007/11/Talks/Semantic_Web.html>, given by the 
W3C Staff <http://www.w3.org/People/>, the staff of the W3C Offices 
<http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Offices/>, and members of the W3C Working Groups 
are available separately; the slides are usually publicly available. The W3C 
also maintains acollection of Semantic Web Case Studies and Use Cases 
<http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/sweo/public/UseCases/> that show how Semantic Web 
technologies, including different vertical application areas, is used in 
practice.

Current Status of Specifications

Learn more about the current status of specifications related to: 

 * Health Care and Life Sciences (Semantic Web) <> 
 * eGovernment <> 
These W3C Groups <> are working on the related specifications: 

 * Government Linked Data Working Group <http://www.w3.org/2011/gld/> 
 * Semantic Web Health Care and Life Sciences Interest Group 
<http://www.w3.org/2001/sw/hcls/> 
Current Status

 * Health Care and Life Sciences (Semantic Web) <> 
 * eGovernment <> 
Use It

 * Tutorials 
 * Business Case 
 * Software 
Footer Navigation

Navigation

 * Home <> 
 * Standards <> 
 * Participate <> 
 * Membership <> 
 * About W3C <> 
Contact W3C

 * Contact <> 
 * Help and FAQ <> 
 * Sponsor / Donate <> 
 * Site Map <> 
 * Feedback <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/site-comments/> 
W3C Updates

 *  <http://twitter.com/W3C> 
Copyright © 2013 W3C ® (MIT <http://www.csail.mit.edu/>, ERCIM 
<http://www.ercim.eu/>, Keio <http://www.keio.ac.jp/>, Beihang 
<http://ev.buaa.edu.cn/>) Usage policies apply <>. 
