W3C activities related to Electronic Commerce  <http://www.w3.org/> 
 W3C and Electronic Commerce 

 W3C Note 07 January 2000 
   This version: 
http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-EC-related-activities-20000107 
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-EC-related-activities-20000107> 
   Latest version: 
http://www.w3.org/TR/EC-related-activities 
<http://www.w3.org/TR/EC-related-activities> 
   Editors: 
Thierry MICHEL <mailto:tmichel@w3.org>, W3C 

Copyright <http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/ipr-notice#Copyright> ©2000 W3C 
<http://www.w3.org/>® (MIT <http://www.lcs.mit.edu/>, INRIA 
<http://www.inria.fr/>, Keio <http://www.keio.ac.jp/>), All Rights Reserved. W3C
 liability <http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/ipr-notice#Legal_Disclaimer>, 
trademark <http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/ipr-notice#W3C_Trademarks>, 
document use <http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/copyright-documents-19990405> 
andsoftware licensing 
<http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/copyright-software-19980720> rules apply. 



 Abstract 

 This document describes the current W3C activities related to Electronic 
Commerce for the purpose of assessing the Consortium's future role in 
ecommerce-related work. It presents the work within theW3C Electronic Commerce 
Activity <http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/Activity.html> and across all W3C 
Activities which are directly related to Electronic Commerce. We expect this 
paper to serve as the basis for a discussion of W3C's role in ecommerce arena 
and, in particular, the future of theElectronic Commerce Interest Group 
<http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/>. 

 <> Status of this document 

 This document is a NOTE made available by the W3C for discussion only. 
Publication of this Note by W3C indicates no endorsement by W3C or the W3C 
Team, or any W3C Members. This Note may be updated, replaced or rendered 
obsolete by other W3C documents at any time. It is inappropriate to use W3C 
Notes as reference material or to cite them as other than "work in progress". 
This document has been produced as part of theW3C Electronic Commerce Activity 
<http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/Activity.html>. 

 Members are welcome to send detailed comments on this document to the mailing 
list of the Electronic Commerce Interest Group (w3c-ecommerce-ig@w3.org 
<mailto:w3c-ecommerce-ig@w3.org> and archives 
<http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/w3c-ecommerce-ig/> [Member restricted]). 
We cannot guarantee a personal response, but we will try when it is appropriate.
 Depending on the response from interested/affected W3C Working Groups and 
from the W3C Members at large, submitters' suggestions will be brought to the 
attention of theElectronic Commerce Interest Group 
<http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/> for further work on Electronic Commerce issues.

 A list of current W3C technical reports and publications, including Working 
Drafts and Notes, can be found athttp://www.w3.org/TR <http://www.w3.org/TR>. 

 <> Table of Contents 

 * Introduction <> 
 * W3C Activities related to Electronic Commerce <> 
 * Acknowledged Submissions to W3C related to Electronic Commerce <> 
 * Other resources related to Electronic Commerce <> 
 * Conclusion <> 


1-Introduction <> 

 An major factor in the evolution of the Web is Electronic Commerce: the 
ability to buy, sell, and advertise goods and services to customers and 
consumers. One concern in the development of Electronic Commerce on the Web is 
the trust that can be placed in the provenance, reliability, security and 
privacy of information available from or transferred over the internet. Another 
concern is the need for low friction commerce transactions allowing quality and 
ease of use for consumers, a key factor the future of Electronic Commerce. The 
potential for global electronic commerce is immense; much of this potential is 
and will be realized by the continued development of Web technologies. The 
World Wide Web Consortium, leading the web to its full potential, is therefore 
concerned with the evolution of Electronic Commerce on the Web. The role of W3C 
is to focus on core infrastructure technologies for Electronic Commerce and 
identify common infrastructure needed in this area. W3C is not committed for 
example in specifying banking systems nor schemas for specific Electronic 
Commerce applications.

 W3C, through the following activities is committed to key factors for success 
in the evolution of Electronic Commerce:


 *  The Micropayment initiative <http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/Micropayments/> 
specifies how to provide in a Web page all the information necessary to 
initialize a micropayment and transfer this information to the wallet for 
processing.
 *  The W3C Metadata Activity <http://www.w3.org/Metadata/> provides a means 
to make statements and create machine-readable statements.
 *  The W3C Digital Signature Initiative <http://www.w3.org/DSig> provides a 
mechanism for signing documents and metadata in order to establish who made the 
statement.
 *  The PICS Rules <http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-PICSRules> specification allows 
to establish rules that can be understood by machines and exchanged by users.
 *  The Platform for Privacy Preferences Project <http://www.w3.org/P3P> (P3P) 
provides communication about data privacy practices between consumers and 
merchant sites on the Web as well as enhanced user control over the use and 
disclosure of personal information.
 *  The now-completed JEPI <http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-jepi> project created the
Protocol Extension Protocol <http://www.w3.org/Protocols/PEP> (PEP) to provide 
for negotiation on the Web for binding terms and conditions.
 *  Major W3C common specifications for the Web in areas such as network 
protocols <http://www.w3.org/Protocols/>, graphical user interface 
<http://www.w3.org/UI/>, remain the basis of Electronic Commerce. 
 2- W3C Activities <> related to Electronic Commerce 

 Activities related to Electronic Commerce are widely spread across the all 
World Wide Web Consortium. TheElectronic Commerce Activity 
<http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/Activity.html> is the core framework in this area, 
but other activities within W3C are also involved in Electronic Commerce like 
in theTechnology & Society Domain <http://www.w3.org/TandS/> which has 
addressed different issues on privacy, security, and content control that are 
major concerns in Electronic Commerce and for the web of trust. Therefore, 
technologies specified in theTechnology & Society Domain 
<http://www.w3.org/TandS/>, Architecture Domain 
<http://www.w3.org/Architecture/> and User interface Domain 
<http://www.w3.org/UI/> are precious for the development and for the future of 
Electronic Commerce. The Consortium is committed in the following Electronic 
Commerce related topics:

 2.1- The Electronic Commerce Activity 

 The Electronic Commerce Activity <http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/Activity.html> 
is of course dedicated to this area. It hosts anElectronic Commerce Interest 
Group <http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/> serving as a forum to explore cooperation 
and exchange ideas. This Interest Group has lead to the creation of Working 
Groups for the Micropayment Initiative and the Electronic Payment Initiative.

 2.1.a- The Electronic Commerce Interest Group 

The Electronic Commerce Interest Group <http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/> is a 
forum designed to allow the members to evaluate potential Web technologies in 
the Electronic Commerce area and to share information with the Consortium staff 
and other members about:

 *  Problems they have encountered (and proposed solutions) 
 *  Priorities (in addressing the problems) 
 *  Work underway in related areas 
 *  What role, if any, the Consortium should play 
 The Electronic Commerce Interest Group has met three times in the last two 
years, inBrussels <http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/970903-Brussels/>, Seattle 
<http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/980108-Seattle/>, and Paris 
<http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/Micropayments/micropay-announce.html>. There is an 
on-going email list (w3c-ecommerce-ig@w3.org <mailto:w3c-ecommerce-ig@w3.org> 
andarchives <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Member/w3c-ecommerce-ig/> [Member 
restricted]) associated with the Interest Group which is from its beginning 
very quiet.

 2.1.b- Micropayments Initiative 

 The Electronic Commerce Activity is currently involved in realizing the 
opportunities inMicropayments <http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/Micropayments/>, and 
this has formed the main task of the Activity for the last 12 months.
Micropayments <http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/Micropayments/> are very small 
payments made over the Web for documents that you access. Micropayments cover 
transactions which are too small to be economical as credit card transactions, 
and can be as little as a fraction of a cent. Micropayments provide an 
alternative to subscription and advertising as a source of revenue. The 
Micropayments Initiative hosts two Working Groups:
 The Micropayment Markup Working Group 
<http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/Micropayments/Group/MarkupWG.html> [Member 
restricted]: The embedding of payment information in Web pages. This 
specification provides an extensible way to embed in a Web page all the 
information necessary to initialize a micropayment.
 The Micropayments API Working Group 
<http://www.w3.org/ECommerce/Micropayments/Group/APIWG.html> [Member 
restricted]: The API to start the wallet and transfer the information defined 
above to the wallet for processing.

 2.1.c- Electronic payment Initiative 

 The Joint Electronic Payment Initiative (JEPI <http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-jepi>
) was a primary initiative in the Electronic Commerce Activity. It has 
addressed a standardized way of automatable negotiating payment methods between 
browsers and servers on the Web.

 3.1- Metadata 

 The Metadata Activity <http://www.w3.org/Metadata/> is the architectural 
underpinning of many of the Technology and Society activities. W3C's work on 
Digital Signatures, Privacy Protection, and Intellectual Property Rights 
Management are all based on the Resource Description Framework (RDF 
<http://www.w3.org/RDF/>) work that is at the heart of the Metadata Activity 
<http://www.w3.org/Metadata/>. Recently, in the Electronic Commerce activity, 
theCommon Markup for Micropayment Per-fee-links 
<http://www.w3.org/TR/WD-Micropayment-Markup/> specification has suggested to 
use the RDF metadata technology for describing micropayments information.

 3.2- Security and Integrity 

 One element of trust in Electronic Commerce is the ability to reliably 
associate a statement with the person or organization who made it. While the 
underlying cryptographic technology to accomplish this is available and widely 
known, it has not yet been applied to a general-purpose system for creating 
machine readable statements. The Digital Signature Initiative (DSig 
<http://www.w3.org/DSig/>) fills this important role by specifying how to sign 
statements expressed as metadata.
 Another element of trust is the ability to digitally sign Web resources and 
portions of protocol messages (anything referenciable by a URI) and procedures 
for computing and verifying such signatures. It is the mission of the
XML-Signature WG <http://www.w3.org/Signature/> to develop an XML 
<http://www.w3.org/XML/> compliant syntax for such mechanism. 

 3.3- Privacy 

 Electronic Commerce involves the constant tension between the need for a 
merchant site to gain information about their costumers and the need for these 
individuals to control the release of this information to others. The Platform 
for Privacy Preferences (P3P <http://www.w3.org/P3P/>) addresses the twin goals 
of meeting the data privacy expectations of consumers on the Web while assuring 
that the medium remains available and productive for Electronic Commerce. 
Following the principle of providing consumers notice of site privacy polices, 
and allowing users to express and act upon their privacy preferences in a 
flexible manner, one goal enhances the success of the other. In addition, P3P 
provides a mechanism developing standard, extensible data sets of personal 
information to be transferred between user agents and servers,

 3.4- Content Control 

 The Platform for Internet Content Selection (PICS <http://www.w3.org/PICS>) 
was created as an alternative model to centralized government controls on 
indecent content. PICS encourages decentralized parental empowerment when 
addressing children's access to inappropriate material.
 PICS is a pair of protocols that allows labels to be applied to Internet 
content. These protocols empower any individual or organization to design and 
distribute labels reflecting their views about the content. PICS was 
spearheaded by the Consortium as a practical alternative to global governmental 
censorship of the Internet. In addition, the same technology facilitates 
searching the Web, and providing a foundation for establishing trust in 
information on the Web.

 3.5- Intellectual Property Rights 

 The W3C is considering the issue of making it easier for users to comply with 
Intellectual Property Rights (IPR <http://www.w3.org/IPR/>) policies. Combining 
payment and labeling technologies will make it simple for IP owners to express 
the terms and conditions related to their materials, and for users to comply 
with the stated policies. Business policies are extremely important to the 
development of the Electronic Commerce.

 3.6- XML schema 

 Extensible Markup Language (XML <http://www.w3.org/XML/>) will play an 
increasingly important role in the exchange of a wide variety of data on the 
Web, especially in Business to Business Electronic Commerce and Electronic Data 
Interchange.
 In addition to the XML, the XML Schema Working Group 
<http://www.w3.org/XML/Activity#schema-wg> is addressing means for defining the 
structure, content and semantics of such XML documents. TheXML Schema 
Requirements <http://www.w3.org/TR/NOTE-xml-schema-req> document specifies the 
purpose, basic usage scenarios, design principles, and base requirements for an 
XML schema language.

 3.7- Other technical common specifications 

 Technical common specifications as standards are critical to the long term 
Electronic Commerce success on the Internet as they can allow products and 
services from different vendors to work together. They also encourage 
competition and reduce uncertainty in the global marketplace. W3C, as a global 
and neutral technology development forum, develops common specifications for 
the Web in areas such as network protocols, graphical user interface, allowing 
reliability, interoperability, ease of use and scalability in Electronic 
Commerce on the web.
 The Consortium is also working towards making information on the Web 
accessible to all kind of devices such as mobiles phones (Mobile Access 
<http://www.w3.org/Mobile/>) and television (TVWeb 
<http://www.w3.org/Architecture/#Television>), therefore extending the access 
range for consumers to Electronic Commerce.

 4- Acknowledged Submissions <> to W3C related to Electronic Commerce 

 W3C Member organizations may submit submissions to propose technology or 
other ideas for consideration by W3C. W3C hasacknowledged Submissions 
<http://www.w3.org/Submission/> from Members that are related to the Electronic 
Commerce area. These submissions were brought to the attention of the 
participants in the Electronic Commerce Interest Group for consideration. 
Related Working Group are invited to pick up these Submissions for discussion 
as requirements and design input.
 These documents are also made available to the public for consideration. 

 * UCLP <http://www.w3.org/Submission/1999/02/> - The Universal Commerce 
Language and Protocol is an Extensible Markup Language (XML) application for 
metadata related to commercial products and companies and that can be used in 
identifying and retrieving product data residing across the Internet.
 * ICE <http://www.w3.org/Submission/1998/18/> - The Information and Content 
Exchange Protocol proposes a protocol and data format to implement the shared 
business rules in the domain of syndicated content, on top of the Web 
infrastructure of XML, HTTP, and URIs.
 * XFDL <http://www.w3.org/Submission/1998/16/> - The Extensible Forms 
Description Language describes an XML syntax to represent complex forms such as 
those found in business and government.
 * SDML <http://www.w3.org/Submission/1998/09/>- The Signed Document Markup 
Language describes how to structure a complete signed document, with the 
material being signed as part of the document. We expect that a web-based 
document signature scheme would have to address external documents, also 
referenced by URI. SMDL was an important initial contribution to theXML 
Signature <http://www.w3.org/Signature> Working Group. 
 5- Other resources <> related to Electronic Commerce 

 Following is a non exhaustive list of resources related to Electronic 
Commerce:

 * Biztalk <http://www.biztalk.org/> - A community of standards users, with 
the goal of driving the rapid, consistent adoption of XML to enable electronic 
commerce and application integration.
 * CommerceNet <http://www.commerce.net/> - CommerceNet is a non-profit 
membership organization meeting the evolving needs of companies doing 
electronic commerce. Since its founding in 1994, CommerceNet's mission has been 
to promote and advance interoperable electronic commerce to support emerging 
communities of commerce.
 * ECML <http://www.ECML.org/> - The Electronic Commerce Modeling Language 
provides a simple set of guidelines for web merchants that will enable digital 
wallets from multiple vendors to automate the exchange of information between 
users and merchants.
 * FSTC <http://www.fstc.org/index.html> - The mission of the Financial 
Services Technology Consortium (FSTC) is to leverage the strength of US 
financial services organizations through joint research and development focused 
on technology opportunities, adding business value, managing risk, and reducing 
costs.
 * IOTP <http://www.IOTP.org/> - The Open Trading Protocol was developed by a 
number of organisations, working co-operatively to make widespread Internet 
trading a convenient and secure reality.
 * OASIS <http://www.oasis-open.org/> - A community resource designed to 
provide a credible source of accurate, timely information about the application 
of XML in industrial and commercial settings.
 * XML/EDI <http://www.geocities.com/WallStreet/Floor/5815/index.html> - 
Provides a standard framework to exchange different types of data -- for 
example, an invoice, healthcare claim, project status -- so that the 
information be it in a transaction, exchanged via an Application Program 
Interface (API), web automation, database portal, catalog, a workflow document 
or message can be searched, decoded, manipulated, and displayed consistently 
and correctly by first implementing EDI dictionaries and extending our 
vocabulary via on-line repositories to include our business language, rules and 
objects. 
 6- Conclusion <> 

 W3C work on Web technologies has an an important enabling impact on 
Electronic Commerce. Members requesting Submission Acknowledgment from W3C have 
obviously demonstrated their interest in the Electronic Commerce area. Though 
the Electronic commerce Activity is currently working on Micropayments, we have 
to envision the future of this activity. Based on reaction to this document, we 
will consider hosting a face-to-face meeting of the Electronic Commerce 
Interest Group shortly. Members are welcome to join the mailing list for the 
Electronic Commerce Interest Group. To do so, please send mail to
w3c-ecommerce-ig-request@w3.org <mailto:w3c-ecommerce-ig-request@w3.org>. 
Members are, as always, invited to suggest new Web technologies to explore and 
to demonstrated their motivation related to Electronic Commerce.


