Web Architecture - W3C 
 <> W3C

 * Standards <>
 * Participate <>
 * Membership <>
 * About W3C <>
 * 
Site Navigation

Standards  <>

 * Web Design and Applications <> 
 * Web Architecture <> 
 * Semantic Web <> 
 * XML Technology <> 
 * Web of Services <> 
 * Web of Devices <> 
 * Browsers and Authoring Tools <> 
 * All Standards and Drafts <> 
 * About W3C Standards <> 

 * Skip <> 
 * W3C <> » 
 * Standards <> » 
 * Web Architecture 
Web Architecture

 * On this page → 
 * technology topics <> • 
 * news <> • 
 * upcoming events and talks <> 
Web Architecture focuses on the foundation technologies and principles which 
sustain the Web, including URIs and HTTP.

Architecture Principles  <> 

 Web Architecture principles help to design technologies by providing guidance 
and articulating the issues around some specific choices.

Identifiers  <> 

 We share things by their names. URL, URI, IRI is the way to name things on 
the Web and manipulate them. Some additional addressing needs in the Web 
Services stack motivated some additional layers.

Protocols  <> 

 Protocols are the vehicle for exchanging our ideas. HTTP is the core protocol 
of the Web. W3C is also working on XML Protocols and SOAP in relation to Web 
Services.

Meta Formats  <> 

 XML, the Extensible Markup Language, is used to build new formats at low cost 
(due to widely available tools to manipulate content in those new formats). RDF 
and OWL allow people to define vocabularies (“ontologies”) of terms as part of 
the Semantic Web.

Protocol and Meta Format Considerations  <> 

 Documents on the Web are loosely joined pieces by identifiers. It creates a 
maze of rich interactions between protocols and formats.

Internationalization  <> 

 W3C has worked with the community on the internationalization of identifiers 
(IRIs) and a general character model for the Web.

News  <http://www.w3.org/standards/webarch/news.xml>

 Announcing The Unicode Standard, Version 7.0 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/06/17/announcing-the-unicode-standard-version-7-0/>

17 June 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebArchitecture 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>



Version 7.0 of the Unicode Standard 
<http://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode7.0.0/>is now available, adding 2,834 
new characters. This latest version adds the new currency symbols for the 
Russian ruble and Azerbaijani manat, approximately 250 emoji (pictographic 
symbols), many other symbols, and 23 new lesser-used and historic scripts, as 
well as character additions to many existing scripts. These additions extend 
support for written languages of North America, China, India, other Asian 
countries, and Africa. See the link above for full details.

Most of the new emoji characters derive from characters in long-standing and 
widespread use in Wingdings and Webdings fonts.

Major enhancements were made to the Indic script properties. New property 
values were added to enable a more algorithmic approach to rendering Indic 
scripts. These include properties for joining behavior, new classes for 
numbers, and a further division of the syllabic categories of viramas and 
rephas. With these enhancements, the default rendering for newly added Indic 
scripts can be significantly improved.

Unicode character properties were extended to the new characters. The old 
characters have enhancements to Script and Alphabetic properties, and casing 
and line-breaking behavior. There were also nearly 3,000 new Cantonese 
pronunciation entries, as well as new or clarified stability policies for 
promoting interoperable implementations.

Two other important Unicode specifications are maintained in synchrony with 
the Unicode Standard, and have updates for Version 7.0. These will be released 
at the same time:

UTS #10, Unicode Collation Algorithm 
<http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr10/tr10-30.html>— the standard for sorting 
Unicode text
UTS #46, Unicode IDNA Compatibility Processing 
<http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr46/tr46-13.html>— for processing of non-ASCII 
URLs (IDNs)

 Last Call draft published for Encoding spec 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/06/06/last-call-draft-published-for-encoding-spec/>

06 June 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebArchitecture 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>

A Last Call Working Draft of  Encoding 
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2014/WD-encoding-20140603/>has been published.

While encodings have been defined to some extent, implementations have not 
always implemented them in the same way, have not always used the same labels, 
and often differ in dealing with undefined and former proprietary areas of 
encodings. This specification attempts to fill those gaps so that new 
implementations do not have to reverse engineer encoding implementations of the 
market leaders and existing implementations can converge.

The body of this spec is an exact copy of the WHATWG version as of the date of 
its publication, intended to provide a stable reference for other 
specifications. We are hoping for people to review the specification and send 
comments about any technical areas that need attention (see the Status section 
for details).

Please send comments by 1 July 2014.

 Capability URLs: We Need Your Feedback 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/TAG/2014/05/22/capability-urls-feedback/> 

22 May 2014 

from W3C TAG Lines <http://www.w3.org/blog/TAG>

The battle for web security and privacy is fought at many levels. Sometimes 
common practice in web application design can lead to data leakage with 
untended consequences for users. A good example of this came up recently where 
confidential files shared through common web-based document sharing services 
were being exposed unintentionaly to third parties because the private URLs 
used to share them had been unintentionally leaked.

Dropbox and Box Leaked Shared Private Files Through Google 
http://t.co/hvuSel9Xvz <http://t.co/hvuSel9Xvz>v/ @slashdot 
<https://twitter.com/slashdot> [ cf http://t.co/Mjhp7hsstd 
<http://t.co/Mjhp7hsstd>/cc @JeniT <https://twitter.com/JeniT>]

— Daniel Appelquist (@torgo) May 7, 2014 
<https://twitter.com/torgo/statuses/464109686242164736>



URLs that allow a user to access an otherwise privileged resource or 
information are calledCapability URLs, and while they can be powerful, they can 
also cause potential problems when used improperly.

TAG member Jeni Tennison has been working on a draft defining the space of 
capability URLs and outlining some good practices for usage. We think this 
document should be useful for web builders who are thinking about incorporating 
this pattern into their applications. We think it’s pretty good, but we need 
your feedback before we finalize it and release it as a TAG finding.

The draft may be found here:  http://www.w3.org/TR/capability-urls/ 
<http://www.w3.org/TR/capability-urls/> and if you have feedback you are 
encouraged to raise an issueon github 
<https://github.com/w3ctag/capability-urls> or e-mail us on the TAG public 
mailing list <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/>. Thanks!

 New version of Unicode Ideographic Variation Database released 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/05/19/new-version-of-unicode-ideographic-variation-database-released/>

19 May 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebArchitecture 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>



The Unicode Consortium is pleased to announce the release of version 
2014-05-16 of the Unicode Ideographic Variation Database (IVD). This release 
registers the new Moji_Joho collection, along with the first 10,710 sequences 
in that collection, 9,685 of which are shared by the registered Hanyo-Denshi 
collection. Details can be found at http://www.unicode.org/ivd/.

 Slides for the MultilingualWeb and LIDER workshops available 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/05/15/slides-for-the-multilingualweb-and-lider-workshops-available/>

15 May 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebArchitecture 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>



The slides from the  MultilingualWeb workshop 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-program>
 (including several posters) and the LIDER roadmapping workshop 
<https://www.w3.org/community/ld4lt/wiki/LD4LT_Group_Madrid_May_2014_Meeting>
are now available for download. Additional material (videos of the 
presentations, a workshop report and more) will follow in the next weeks – stay 
tuned.

 Extensible Web Summit Roundup 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/TAG/2014/04/17/the-extensible-web-summit-roundup/> 

17 April 2014 

from W3C TAG Lines <http://www.w3.org/blog/TAG>

On April 4 th, with the much-appreciated help and support of Adobe Systems, 
the TAG organized an event in San Francisco called the Extensible Web Summit. As
 I wrote <http://www.w3.org/blog/TAG/2014/03/17/the-extensible-web-summit/> 
before the event, the intention was to bring together web developers and web 
platform developers from the local area to discuss upcoming, in-development web 
platform technologies and standards both to throw a spotlight on some of the 
topics we think are key and to guide the TAG’s thinking. Judging from the 
feedback we’ve received, I we achieved these goals and more.

There were quite a few positive views shared on Twitter, including:

Epic day at the  #ExtWebSummit 
<https://twitter.com/search?q=%23ExtWebSummit&src=hash>. Devs, standards, and 
implementors all working together. Really excited about the future of the web 
platform.

— Erik Bryn (@ebryn)  April 5, 2014 
<https://twitter.com/ebryn/statuses/452265526304051200>



Learning about ServiceWorkers, networking APIs for things like offline cache 
https://t.co/WXXmn1D0tI <https://t.co/WXXmn1D0tI>  #ExtWebSummit 
<https://twitter.com/search?q=%23ExtWebSummit&src=hash>

— Ans (@anselmbradford)  April 4, 2014 
<https://twitter.com/anselmbradford/statuses/452145810960945152>



Discussion on web packaging & spdy- esp when web becomes modular w components 
etc. Concat all scripts? #extwebsummit 
<https://twitter.com/search?q=%23extwebsummit&src=hash> 
pic.twitter.com/3r2F7FrFtO <http://t.co/3r2F7FrFtO>

— Tomomi ✿ Imura (@girlie_mac)  April 4, 2014 
<https://twitter.com/girlie_mac/statuses/452205659673485312>



The Extensible Web Summit was bloody great & should be done again. Notes at 
http://t.co/wdQIaH9G6i <http://t.co/wdQIaH9G6i>– nice one @torgo 
<https://twitter.com/torgo> @annevk <https://twitter.com/annevk> @domenic 
<https://twitter.com/domenic>et al

— Jake Archibald (@jaffathecake)  April 5, 2014 
<https://twitter.com/jaffathecake/statuses/452510141431042048>



…and the summit has inspired a few blog posts, from  Alan Sterns 
<http://blogs.adobe.com/webplatform/2014/04/14/april-2014-extensible-web-summit/>
 , Brian Kardell 
<http://briankardell.wordpress.com/2014/04/07/the-extensible-web-summit-an-unexpected-journey/>
 and Simon St. Laurent 
<http://programming.oreilly.com/2014/04/can-we-extend-the-web-cleanly.html>.

The final schedule of sessions and links to the unfiltered notes from these 
sessions can be found on theLanyrd page 
<http://lanyrd.com/2014/extensible-web-summit/>for the event. Thanks again to 
everyone who came along! Based on the feedback we received, I think it’s likely 
we’ll be running events in the future in the same format. Watch this space and 
follow @w3ctag <http://twitter.com/w3ctag>on Twitter to keep up to date.

 Program published for W3C MultilingualWeb Workshop in Madrid, 7-8 May 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/04/11/program-published-for-w3c-multilingualweb-workshop-in-madrid-7-8-may/>

11 April 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebArchitecture 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>



 See the program. 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-program>
The keynote speaker will be Alolita Sharma, Director of Language Engineering 
from the Wikimedia Foundation. She is followed by a strong line up in sessions 
entitled Developers, Creators, Localizers, Machines, and Users, including 
speakers from Microsoft, Wikimedia Foundation, the UN FAO, W3C, Yandex, SDL, 
Lionbridge, Asia Pacific TLD, Verisign, DFKI, and many more. On the afternoon 
of the second day we will hold Open Space breakout discussions. Abstracts and 
details about an additional poster session will be provided shortly.

The program will also feature an  LD4LT event on May 8-9 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/ld4lt-rm-workshop/>
, focusing on text analytics and the usefulness of Wikipedia and Dbpedia for 
multiilngual text and content analytics, and on language resources and aspects 
of converting selected types of language resources into RDF.

Participation in both events is free. See the  Call for Participation 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-cfp#participate>
 for details about how to register for the MultilingualWeb workshop. The LD4LT 
event requires a separate registration 
<https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/1/lider-rmws-20140508-09/>and you have the 
opportunity to submit position statements about language resources and RDF.

If you haven’t registered yet, note that space is limited, so please be sure 
to register soon to ensure that you get a place.

The MultilingualWeb workshops, funded by the European Commission and 
coordinated by the W3C, look at best practices and standards related to all 
aspects of creating, localizing and deploying the multilingual Web. The 
workshops are successful because they attract a wide range of participants, 
from fields such as localization, language technology, browser development, 
content authoring and tool development, etc., to create a holistic view of the 
interoperability needs of the multilingual Web.

We look forward to seeing you in Madrid!

 The Extensible Web Summit 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/TAG/2014/03/17/the-extensible-web-summit/> 

17 March 2014 

from W3C TAG Lines <http://www.w3.org/blog/TAG>

We’re running an event on Friday the 4 thof April in San Francisco and you’re 
invited.

For the past year, along-side our regular face-to-face meetings, the TAG has 
been holding evening developer meet-ups under the moniker “Meet the TAG.” The 
radical idea has been to take advantage of the fact that our meetings are 
happening in cities with large concentrations of Web developers to connect with 
these developer communities in a meaningful and useful way. The hopeful outcome 
is to both keep developers informed about what we’re doing, presumablyon their 
behalf, with their platform, and to drive some feedback back into the TAG to 
help guide our thinking and our work. The results have generally been good, 
generating usefulcriticism <http://adactio.com/journal/6629/> and  feedback 
<http://www.brucelawson.co.uk/2014/i-met-the-tag-2/>which we’ve tried to take 
on board, and making the TAG less of an echo chamber. In the mean time we’ve 
met lots of developers who take a keen interest in web architecture and the 
future of the web platform.

For our next face-to-face meeting in San Francisco, we’re planning to expand 
this idea to a full-fledged one-day event, bringing in web developers and web
platformdevelopers, people who are deeply invested in the web platform but may 
not be participating directly in standards. We’re calling this event the
Extensible Web Summit <http://lanyrd.com/ctfrp>.

As Twitter denizen Daniel Buchner put it:

@briankardell <https://twitter.com/briankardell> @wycats 
<https://twitter.com/wycats> @w3ctag <https://twitter.com/w3ctag> are you 
telling me we’re going to try developing API “products” using direct “customer” 
feedback? Mind = blown

— Daniel Buchner (@csuwildcat)  December 9, 2013 
<https://twitter.com/csuwildcat/statuses/410105133939171329>

The web is 25 years old. What do we want this platform to look like 25 years 
from now? This event will bring together web platform developers and 
practitioners from different communities and backgrounds to focus on the future 
of the web architecture and platform. With the exception of some curated 
lightning talks at the beginning of the day to set the scene, the event will be 
run as an unconference <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unconference>, with the 
agenda self-organized by the participants. We’d like to thank Adobe Systems for 
stepping forward as our host for this event.

Who should attend? We would ideally like to pack this event with platform 
developers, framework developers and web developers with an interest in helping 
to drive the future of the web platform. If you read and liked what you saw in 
theExtensible Web Manifesto <http://extensiblewebmanifesto.org/> and you’d like 
to learn more and influence the direction of this thinking, then we’d love to 
have you along. Likewise if you are interested in other web technologies such 
as real time communication, platform & device APIs, security, permissions, 
manifests & packaging, offline usage, JavaScript promises & streams, push 
notifications and touch. The event is free to attend, but is filling up fast. 
If this sounds like your cup of tea, visitour Lanyrd page 
<http://lanyrd.com/ctfrp>and grab a ticket.

 Speaker deadline for Madrid MultilingualWeb Workshop is Friday, March 14 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/03/05/speaker-deadline-for-madrid-multilingualweb-workshop-is-friday-march-14/>

05 March 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebArchitecture 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>

We would like to remind you that the deadline for speaker proposals for the 
7th MultilingualWeb Workshop (May 7–8, 2014, Madrid, Spain) is on Friday, March 
14, at 23:59 UTC.

Featuring a keynote by Alolita Sharma (Director of Engineering, Wikipedia) and 
breakout sessions on linked open data and other critical topics, this Workshop 
will focus on the advances and challenges faced in making the Web truly 
multilingual. It provides an outstanding and influential forum for thought 
leaders to share their ideas and gain critical feedback.

While the organizers have already received many excellent submissions, there 
is still time to make a proposal, and we encourage interested parties to do so 
by the deadline. With roughly 200 attendees anticipated for the Workshop from a 
wide variety of profiles, we are certain to have a large and diverse audience 
that can provide constructive and useful feedback, with stimulating discussion 
about all of the presentations.

For more information and to register, please visit the Madrid Workshop  Call 
for Participation 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-cfp>.

 Alolita Sharma (Wikipedia) to deliver keynote at 7th Multilingual Web 
Workshop (May 7–8, 2014, Madrid) 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/02/24/alolita-sharma-wikipedia-to-deliver-keynote-at-7th-multilingual-web-workshop-may-7-8-2014-madrid/>

24 February 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebArchitecture 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>





We are please to announce that Alolita Sharma, Director of Engineering for 
Internationalization and Localization at Wikipedia, will deliver the keynote at 
the 7th Multilingual Web Workshop, “New Horizons for the Multilingual Web,” in 
Madrid, Spain (7–8 May 2014).

With over 30 million articles in 286 languages as of January 1, 2014 
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Wikipedias>, Wikipedia has now become one 
of the largest providers of multilingual content in the world. Because of its 
user-generated and constantly changing content, many traditional processes for 
managing multilingual content on the web either do not work or do not scale 
well for Wikipedia. Alolita Sharma’s keynote will highlight Wikipedia’s 
diversity in multilingual user-generated content and the language technologies 
that Wikipedia has had to develop to support its unprecedented growth of 
content. She will also discuss the many challenges Wikipedia faces in providing 
language support for the mobile web.

The Multilingual Web Workshop series brings together participants interested 
in the best practices, new technologies, and standards needed to help content 
creators, localizers, language tools developers, and others address the new 
opportunities and challenges of the multilingual Web. It will provide for 
networking across communities and building connections.

Registration for the Workshop is free, and early registration 
<https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/1/2014mlw/>is recommended since space at the 
Workshop is limited.

There is still opportunity for individuals to submit proposals to speak at the 
workshop. Ideal proposals will highlight emerging challenges or novel solutions 
for reaching out to a global, multilingual audience. The deadline for speaker 
proposals is March 14, but early submission is strongly encouraged. See the 
Call for Participation 
<http://multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-cfp>for 
more details.

This workshop is made possible by the generous support of the LIDER project, 
which will organize a roadmapping workshop on linked data and content analytics 
as one of the tracks at Multilingual Web Workshop.

 Talks and Appearances  <>

None. See full list of W3C Talks and Appearances <>.

 Events  <> 

None. See full list of W3C Events <>.

Footer Navigation

Navigation

 * Home <>
 * Standards <>
 * Participate <>
 * Membership <>
 * About W3C <> 
Contact W3C

 * Contact <>
 * Help and FAQ <>
 * Sponsor / Donate <>
 * Site Map <>
 * Feedback <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/site-comments/> 
W3C Updates

 *  <http://twitter.com/W3C> 
Copyright © 2013 W3C ® (MIT <http://www.csail.mit.edu/>, ERCIM 
<http://www.ercim.eu/>, Keio <http://www.keio.ac.jp/>, Beihang 
<http://ev.buaa.edu.cn/>) Usage policies apply <>.
