Web and TV - W3C 
 <> W3C

 * Standards <> 
 * Participate <> 
 * Membership <> 
 * About W3C <> 
 * 
Site Navigation

Web of Devices  <>

 * Voice Browsing <> 
 * Device Independence and Content Adaptation <> 
 * Multimodal Access <> 
 * Web and TV <> 

 * Skip <> 
 * W3C <> » 
 * Standards <> » 
 * Web of Devices <> » 
 * Web and TV 
Web and TV

 * On this page → 
 * what is web and tv <> • 
 * what are w3c's plans in 2011 <> • 
 * learn more <> • 
 * current status of specifications <> and groups <> • 
 * contact <> 
 TV is a mature but rapidly-changing market. With the advent of IP-based 
devices, connected TVs are progressing at a fast pace and traditional TV 
broadcasting is quickly evolving into a more immersive experience where users 
can interact with rich applications that are at least partly based on Web 
technologies. There is strong growth in the deployment of devices that 
integrate regular Web technologies such as HTML, CSS, and SVG, coupled with 
various device APIs.

What is Web and Television?

There is huge potential for the future to create an interoperable platform 
where Web and TV benefit from each other. For instance, TV comes with quality 
of services requirements for video delivery that would benefit video delivery 
on the Web, e.g. through the introduction of HTTP adaptive streaming 
mechanisms. Similarly, exposing additional functionalities to the Web browser 
that are commonly found on TV such astrick mode replay (fast rewind, fast 
forward) or channel control would facilitate the integration of Web browsers 
within TV sets.

Due to its central position as a home device, TV is the primary screen for many
second-screen scenarios, whereby a second device (laptop, mobile phone) 
interacts with the TV set to enlarge the possibilities in terms of user 
interactions with the show that the user watches. This includes gaming, 
shopping, or synchronized browsing scenarios.

See also previous work at W3C on Web and TV 
<http://www.w3.org/TV/Overview-2002.html>, between 1998 and 2002.

Learn More

The Web and TV Interest Group <http://www.w3.org/2011/webtv/> will discuss and 
document findings and useful material on his home page.

The pages of the Web and TV Tokyo workshop 
<http://www.w3.org/2010/09/web-on-tv/> and of the Web and TV Berlin workshop 
<http://www.w3.org/2010/11/web-and-tv/> reference various proposals and 
discussions on potential Web and TV standardization needs.

Current Status of Specifications

Learn more about the current status of specifications related to Web and TV: 

These W3C Groups <> are working on the related specifications: 

 * Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) Working Group 
<http://www.w3.org/Style/CSS/members> 
 * Device APIs Working Group <http://www.w3.org/2009/dap/> 
 * Web and TV Interest Group <http://www.w3.org/2011/webtv/> 
Contacts

Kazuyuki Ashimura <http://www.w3.org/People/#ashimura> <ashimura@w3.org 
<mailto:ashimura@w3.org>> 

Daniel Davis <http://www.w3.org/People/#ddavis> <ddavis@w3.org 
<mailto:ddavis@w3.org>> 

Current Status

 * Web and TV <> 
Footer Navigation

Navigation

 * Home <> 
 * Standards <> 
 * Participate <> 
 * Membership <> 
 * About W3C <> 
Contact W3C

 * Contact <> 
 * Help and FAQ <> 
 * Donate <> 
 * Site Map <> 
 * Feedback <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/site-comments/> 
W3C Updates

 *  <http://twitter.com/W3C> 
Copyright © 2013 W3C ® (MIT <http://www.csail.mit.edu/>, ERCIM 
<http://www.ercim.eu/>, Keio <http://www.keio.ac.jp/>, Beihang 
<http://ev.buaa.edu.cn/>) Usage policies apply <>. 
