Web of Devices - W3C 
 <> W3C

 * Standards <>
 * Participate <>
 * Membership <>
 * About W3C <>
 * 
Site Navigation

Standards  <>

 * Web Design and Applications <> 
 * Web Architecture <> 
 * Semantic Web <> 
 * XML Technology <> 
 * Web of Services <> 
 * Web of Devices <> 
 * Browsers and Authoring Tools <> 
 * All Standards and Drafts <> 
 * About W3C Standards <> 

 * Skip <> 
 * W3C <> » 
 * Standards <> » 
 * Web of Devices 
Web of Devices

 * On this page → 
 * technology topics <> • 
 * news <> • 
 * upcoming events and talks <> 
W3C is focusing on technologies to enable Web access anywhere, anytime, using 
any device. This includes Web access from mobile phones and other mobile 
devices as well as use of Web technology in consumer electronics, printers, 
interactive television, and even automobiles.

Mobile Web  <> 

 W3C promotes “One Web” that is available on any device. W3C’s Mobile Web 
Initiative helps ensure the best user experience on mobile devices, taking into 
account device capabilities, location, and other context information.

Voice Browsing  <> 

 The W3C Speech Interface Framework is a suite of specifications (e.g. 
VoiceXML) integrating Web technology and speech interaction. VoiceXML, PLS, 
SISR, SRGS, SCXML, and CCXML all contribute to the Speech Interface Framework.

Device Independence and Content Adaptation  <> 

 Devices come in many shapes, capabilities and sizes which define constraints 
on the content these devices can handle. Device descriptions, content 
transformation guidelines, device APIs and CC/PP help developers to optimize 
the user experience.

Multimodal Access  <> 

 Increasingly, interactions with devices doesn’t only happen with a keyboard, 
but also through voice, touch and gestures. The W3C Multimodal architecture and 
its components (EMMA, InkML) allow developers to adapt applications to new 
interaction modes.

Web and TV  <> 

 With the advent of IP-based devices, connected TVs are progressing at a fast 
pace and traditional TV broadcasting is quickly evolving into a more immersive 
experience where users can interact with rich applications that are at least 
partly based on Web technologies. There is strong growth in the deployment of 
devices that integrate regular Web technologies such as HTML, CSS, and SVG, 
coupled with various device APIs.

News  <http://www.w3.org/standards/webofdevices/news.xml>

 Announcing The Unicode Standard, Version 7.0 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/06/17/announcing-the-unicode-standard-version-7-0/>

17 June 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebOfDevices 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>



Version 7.0 of the Unicode Standard 
<http://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode7.0.0/>is now available, adding 2,834 
new characters. This latest version adds the new currency symbols for the 
Russian ruble and Azerbaijani manat, approximately 250 emoji (pictographic 
symbols), many other symbols, and 23 new lesser-used and historic scripts, as 
well as character additions to many existing scripts. These additions extend 
support for written languages of North America, China, India, other Asian 
countries, and Africa. See the link above for full details.

Most of the new emoji characters derive from characters in long-standing and 
widespread use in Wingdings and Webdings fonts.

Major enhancements were made to the Indic script properties. New property 
values were added to enable a more algorithmic approach to rendering Indic 
scripts. These include properties for joining behavior, new classes for 
numbers, and a further division of the syllabic categories of viramas and 
rephas. With these enhancements, the default rendering for newly added Indic 
scripts can be significantly improved.

Unicode character properties were extended to the new characters. The old 
characters have enhancements to Script and Alphabetic properties, and casing 
and line-breaking behavior. There were also nearly 3,000 new Cantonese 
pronunciation entries, as well as new or clarified stability policies for 
promoting interoperable implementations.

Two other important Unicode specifications are maintained in synchrony with 
the Unicode Standard, and have updates for Version 7.0. These will be released 
at the same time:

UTS #10, Unicode Collation Algorithm 
<http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr10/tr10-30.html>— the standard for sorting 
Unicode text
UTS #46, Unicode IDNA Compatibility Processing 
<http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr46/tr46-13.html>— for processing of non-ASCII 
URLs (IDNs)

 Last Call draft published for Encoding spec 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/06/06/last-call-draft-published-for-encoding-spec/>

06 June 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebOfDevices 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>

A Last Call Working Draft of  Encoding 
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2014/WD-encoding-20140603/>has been published.

While encodings have been defined to some extent, implementations have not 
always implemented them in the same way, have not always used the same labels, 
and often differ in dealing with undefined and former proprietary areas of 
encodings. This specification attempts to fill those gaps so that new 
implementations do not have to reverse engineer encoding implementations of the 
market leaders and existing implementations can converge.

The body of this spec is an exact copy of the WHATWG version as of the date of 
its publication, intended to provide a stable reference for other 
specifications. We are hoping for people to review the specification and send 
comments about any technical areas that need attention (see the Status section 
for details).

Please send comments by 1 July 2014.

 One more week to FEISGILTT – learn about and contribute to the future of Web 
and localization standards! 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/05/28/one-more-week-to-feisgiltt-learn-about-and-contribute-to-the-future-of-web-and-localization-standards/>

28 May 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebOfDevices 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>

On 4 June and as part of the Localization World conference in Dublin, the  
FEISGILTT event <http://www.localizationworld.com/lwdub2014/feisgiltt/> will 
again provide an opportunity to discuss latest developments around localization 
and multilingual Web technologies. The event is sponsored by theLIDER project 
<http://lider-project.eu/>.

Highlights include updates about ITS 2.0 and XLIFF 2.0, and a session about 
usage scenarios for linguistic linked data in localization. Speakers include 
Kevin O’Donnell (Microsoft), Bryan Schnabel (Tektronix), Yves Savourel (Enlaso) 
and many more.

Register now <>to meet the key players around standards that will influence 
today’s and future business.

 Slides for the MultilingualWeb and LIDER workshops available 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/05/15/slides-for-the-multilingualweb-and-lider-workshops-available/>

15 May 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebOfDevices 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>



The slides from the  MultilingualWeb workshop 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-program>
 (including several posters) and the LIDER roadmapping workshop 
<https://www.w3.org/community/ld4lt/wiki/LD4LT_Group_Madrid_May_2014_Meeting>
are now available for download. Additional material (videos of the 
presentations, a workshop report and more) will follow in the next weeks – stay 
tuned.

 This week: WebbyAwards celebrating Web25, WebCryptoAPI LC comments, EFF Do 
Not Track tool, etc. 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/2014/05/this-week-webbyawards-celebrating-web25-webcryptoapi-lc-comments-eff-do-not-track-tool-etc/>

09 May 2014 

from Mobile Web @ W3C - W3C <http://www.w3.org/Mobile/>

This is the 2-9 May 2014edition of a “weekly digest of W3C news and trends” 
that I prepare for the W3C Membership and public-w3c-digest 
<mailto:public-w3c-digest-request@w3.org?subject=subscribe> mailing list 
(publicly archived <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-w3c-digest/>). 
This digest aggregates information about W3C and W3C technology from online 
media —a snapshot of how W3C and its work is perceived in online media. 

W3C and HTML5 related Twitter trends

[What was tweeted frequently, or caught my attention. Most recentfirst 
(popularity is flagged with a figure —number of times the same URIs or tweet 
was quoted/RTed.)] 

 * ( 36) Segu-Info:  W3C realiza un Penetration Test y solicita el cambio de 
contraseñas de sus usuarios 
<http://blog.segu-info.com.ar/2014/05/w3c-realiza-un-penetration-test-y.html>
(W3C performs a Penetration Test and requests the change of user passwords) 
 * ( 149) EFF:  International Day Against DRM: Whatever Happened to the W3C? 
<https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2014/05/international-day-against-drm-whatever-happened-w3c>
 * ( 34) TheWebbyAwards:  We’re celebrating 25 years of the Web with 
@webfoundation and @w3c. Visit our 25 for 25 project: 
http://www.webat25.org/thewebbyawards/ #web25 
<http://twitter.com/TheWebbyAwards/status/463604306747211777> 
 * ( 33) WebCryptoAPI Last Call:  comments from Akamai’s Principal Security 
Engineer Rich Salz 
<http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-webcrypto-comments/2014May/0000.html>
 * ( 51) W3C Web and Mobile Interest Group: Standards for Web Applications on 
Mobile: current state and roadmap – April 2014 
<http://www.w3.org/2014/04/mobile-web-app-state/> 
 * ( 228) SitePoint:  Using Device Orientation in HTML5 
<http://www.sitepoint.com/using-device-orientation-html5/> 
 * ( 1.1K) EFF: Help EFF Test Privacy Badger, Our New Tool to Stop Creepy 
Online Tracking <https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2014/04/privacy-badger> 
Open Web & net rights

 * webat25.org:  UK’s Southbank Centre Unveils Web We Want Festival in 
celebration of #web25 
<http://www.webat25.org//news/uks-southbank-centre-unveils-web-we-want-festival-in-celebration-of-web25>
(8 May 2014) 
 * The Verge:  Huge coalition led by Amazon, Microsoft, and others take a 
stand against FCC on net neutrality 
<http://www.theverge.com/2014/5/7/5692578/tech-coalition-challenges-fcc>(7 May 
2014) 
 * Ars Technica:  Mozilla offers FCC a net neutrality plan—with a twist 
<http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2014/05/mozilla-offers-fcc-a-net-neutrality-plan-with-a-twist/>
(5 May 2014) 
 * Mozilla: Starting May 12th, 2014 – Learn creative ways to teach web 
literacy, digital skills and open practices 
<http://training.webmakerprototypes.org/en/>(1 May 2014) 
W3C in the Press (or blogs)

18articles since the previous Digest. A selection follows. Find keywords on our
Press clippings <http://www.w3.org/Press/Articles>.

 * ZDNet(8 May):  Should cloud services treat a million end-user devices 
equally? 
<http://www.zdnet.com/should-cloud-services-treat-a-million-end-user-devices-equally-7000029208/>
 * Data Guidance (8 May):  USA: W3C’s ‘huge milestone’ on DNT, moves to Last 
Call status 
<http://www.dataguidance.com/dataguidance_privacy_this_week.asp?id=2304> 
 * Huffington Post – The World Post (6 May):  We Need a Magna Carta for the 
Internet 
<http://www.huffingtonpost.com/tim-bernerslee/internet-magna-carta_b_5274261.html>
 * IDG News (2 May):  Yahoo drops ‘Do Not Track’ policy in favor of 
‘personalized’ experience 
<http://www.idgnews.in/article/yahoo-drops-do-not-track-policy-favor-personalized-experience>
 * Adweek (29 April):  Ad Industry Will Soon Unveil a Do Not Track Browser 
Solution 
<http://www.adweek.com/news/technology/ad-industry-will-soon-unveil-do-not-track-browser-solution-157356>
 * MediaPost Daily Online Examiner (25 April):  Web Standards Group Moves 
Forward With Do-Not-Track Effort 
<http://www.mediapost.com/publications/article/224423/web-standards-group-moves-forward-with-do-not-trac.html>
 * CIHAN (24 April):  Brazil’s internet move globally acclaimed 
<http://en.cihan.com.tr/news/Brazil-s-internet-move-acclaimed-globally_5550-CHMTQxNTU1MC80;+LzrqTnubHZdws>
 MultilingualWeb workshop 7-8 May – follow via live stream! 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/05/06/multilingualweb-workshop-7-8-may-follow-via-live-stream/>

06 May 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebOfDevices 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>



The MultilingualWeb workshop on 7-8 May will be  streamed live 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-program#streaming-info>
 ! Follow the event online if you cannot make it to Madrid. For details about 
speakers and presentations see the workshop program 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-program>
 . The workshop is supported by theLIDER <http://lider-project.eu/> project and 
sponsored byVerisign <http://www.verisign.com/> and Lionbridge 
<http://www.lionbridge.com/>.

 Program published for W3C MultilingualWeb Workshop in Madrid, 7-8 May 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/04/11/program-published-for-w3c-multilingualweb-workshop-in-madrid-7-8-may/>

11 April 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebOfDevices 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>



 See the program. 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-program>
The keynote speaker will be Alolita Sharma, Director of Language Engineering 
from the Wikimedia Foundation. She is followed by a strong line up in sessions 
entitled Developers, Creators, Localizers, Machines, and Users, including 
speakers from Microsoft, Wikimedia Foundation, the UN FAO, W3C, Yandex, SDL, 
Lionbridge, Asia Pacific TLD, Verisign, DFKI, and many more. On the afternoon 
of the second day we will hold Open Space breakout discussions. Abstracts and 
details about an additional poster session will be provided shortly.

The program will also feature an  LD4LT event on May 8-9 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/ld4lt-rm-workshop/>
, focusing on text analytics and the usefulness of Wikipedia and Dbpedia for 
multiilngual text and content analytics, and on language resources and aspects 
of converting selected types of language resources into RDF.

Participation in both events is free. See the  Call for Participation 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-cfp#participate>
 for details about how to register for the MultilingualWeb workshop. The LD4LT 
event requires a separate registration 
<https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/1/lider-rmws-20140508-09/>and you have the 
opportunity to submit position statements about language resources and RDF.

If you haven’t registered yet, note that space is limited, so please be sure 
to register soon to ensure that you get a place.

The MultilingualWeb workshops, funded by the European Commission and 
coordinated by the W3C, look at best practices and standards related to all 
aspects of creating, localizing and deploying the multilingual Web. The 
workshops are successful because they attract a wide range of participants, 
from fields such as localization, language technology, browser development, 
content authoring and tool development, etc., to create a holistic view of the 
interoperability needs of the multilingual Web.

We look forward to seeing you in Madrid!

 This week: W3C Annotations Workshop, WebRTC Summit, Net Neutrality in Europe, 
etc. 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/2014/04/this-week-w3c-annotations-workshop-webrtc-summit-net-neutrality-in-europe-etc/>

04 April 2014 

from Mobile Web @ W3C - W3C <http://www.w3.org/Mobile/>

This is the 28 March – 4 April 2014edition of a “weekly digest of W3C news and 
trends” that I prepare for the W3C Membership and public-w3c-digest 
<mailto:public-w3c-digest-request@w3.org?subject=subscribe> mailing list 
(publicly archived <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-w3c-digest/>). 
This digest aggregates information about W3C and W3C technology from online 
media —a snapshot of how W3C and its work is perceived in online media. 

W3C and HTML5 related Twitter trends

Nothing stood out particularly this week; I noted a few mentions of:

 * W3C Annotations Workshop <http://www.w3.org/2014/04/annotation/> 
 * JATS-Con (where Liam Quin <http://www.w3.org/People/Quin/> presented “  
Publishing in Style with XML <http://www.w3.org/2014/Talks/0401-jatscon-quin/>”)
 * WebRTC Global Summit (where Dominique Hazaël-Massieux 
<http://www.w3.org/People/Dom/> keynoted “ WebRTC: Web, meet Communications 
<http://www.w3.org/2014/Talks/dhm-webrtc-gs.pdf>”) 
 * W3C TAG <http://www.w3.org/2001/tag/> face-to-face meeting and  Extensible 
Web Summit <http://www.w3.org/blog/TAG/2014/03/17/the-extensible-web-summit/>
(held today) 
Net Neutrality & Open Web

 * Forbes:  The EU Outpaces The U.S. On Net Neutrality 
<http://www.forbes.com/sites/michaelfertik/2014/04/03/the-eu-outpaces-the-us-on-net-neutrality/>
, 4 April 2014 
 * Gigaom:  European Parliament passes strong net neutrality law, along with 
major roaming reforms 
<http://gigaom.com/2014/04/03/european-parliament-passes-strong-net-neutrality-law-along-with-major-roaming-reforms/>
, 3 April 2014 
 * Chris Marsden:  Commissioner Kroes can Skype her grandchildren’s mobiles in 
retirement? 
<http://chrismarsden.blogspot.co.uk/2014/04/commissioner-kroes-can-skype-her.html>
, 3 April 2014 
W3C in the Press (or blogs)

6articles this week. A selection follows. Read more and find keywords on our 
Press clippings <http://www.w3.org/Press/Articles>.

 * IT World(3 April),  Web developers less concerned about 
browser-compatibility, more concerned with HTML5 
<http://www.itworld.com/big-data/412774/web-developers-less-concerned-about-browser-compatibility-more-concerned-html5>
 * Computer World(2 April),  Ad tracking: Is anything being done? 
<http://www.computerworld.com/s/article/9247217/Ad_tracking_Is_anything_being_done_>
 * IT World(31 March),  Accessible technology professionals will soon be able 
to get certified 
<http://www.itworld.com/application-management/412009/accessible-technology-professionals-will-soon-be-able-get-certified>
 * Microfinance Monitor(29 March),  How www (World Wide Web) was born at CERN 
25 years ago? 
<http://www.microfinancemonitor.com/2014/03/29/how-www-world-wide-web-was-born-at-cern-25-years-ago/>
 Speaker deadline for Madrid MultilingualWeb Workshop is Friday, March 14 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/03/05/speaker-deadline-for-madrid-multilingualweb-workshop-is-friday-march-14/>

05 March 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebOfDevices 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>

We would like to remind you that the deadline for speaker proposals for the 
7th MultilingualWeb Workshop (May 7–8, 2014, Madrid, Spain) is on Friday, March 
14, at 23:59 UTC.

Featuring a keynote by Alolita Sharma (Director of Engineering, Wikipedia) and 
breakout sessions on linked open data and other critical topics, this Workshop 
will focus on the advances and challenges faced in making the Web truly 
multilingual. It provides an outstanding and influential forum for thought 
leaders to share their ideas and gain critical feedback.

While the organizers have already received many excellent submissions, there 
is still time to make a proposal, and we encourage interested parties to do so 
by the deadline. With roughly 200 attendees anticipated for the Workshop from a 
wide variety of profiles, we are certain to have a large and diverse audience 
that can provide constructive and useful feedback, with stimulating discussion 
about all of the presentations.

For more information and to register, please visit the Madrid Workshop  Call 
for Participation 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-cfp>.

 This week at W3C: Open Data promotion in Japan, RDF is 15 and RDF 1.1 became 
a Rec, Microsoft to implement WebDriver, etc. 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/2014/02/this-week-at-w3c-open-data-promotion-in-japan-rdf-is-15-and-rdf-1-1-became-a-rec-microsoft-to-implement-webdriver-etc/>

28 February 2014 

from Mobile Web @ W3C - W3C <http://www.w3.org/Mobile/>

This is the 21-28 February 2014edition of a “weekly digest of W3C news and 
trends” that I prepare for the W3C Membership and public-w3c-digest 
<mailto:public-w3c-digest-request@w3.org?subject=subscribe> mailing list 
(publicly archived <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-w3c-digest/>). 
This digest aggregates information about W3C and W3C technology from online 
media —a snapshot of how W3C and its work is perceived in online media. 

W3C and HTML5 buzz in Twitter

[What was tweeted frequently, or caught my attention. Most recentfirst 
(popularity is flagged with a figure —number of times the same URIs or tweet 
was quoted/RTed.)] 

 * (111) ITmedia Japan:  Sabae City leads Open Data promotion in 24 Japanese 
cities <http://www.itmedia.co.jp/news/articles/1402/26/news101.html>, and first 
member of local government to join W3C. 
 * (48) Browser testing & tools WG meeting:  Microsoft to ship a WebDriver 
implementation from IE 11+ 
<http://twitter.com/AutomatedTester/status/438558763432169472> 
 * (50) Spec: RDF 1.1 is a W3C Recommendation 
<https://twitter.com/w3c/status/438331481392685056> 
 * (29) MWC14:  #HTML5 ? We are a believer 
<http://twitter.com/Salespointapp/status/437966881291784193>[picture of W3C 
booth] 
 * (200) MWC14: Mozilla signs a deal to make the world’s cheapest smartphone: 
$25 Firefox OS device <http://topsy.com/s?q=%2425%20mozilla>with 3.5” screen 
and HTML5 apps 
 * (33) MWC14: W3C at Mobile World Congress <https://www.w3.org/2014/MWC/>– 
Booth 8.1G15 
 * (14)Celebration: 15th anniversary of RDF 
<http://twitter.com/danbri/status/437250024343228417> 
 * (148) Mozilla:  Wanted: Awesome HTML5 app ports for Firefox OS & the Open 
Web</a <https://hacks.mozilla.org/2014/02/firefox-apps-programs-2014/> 
Net Neutrality & Open Web

 * Knight Foundation:  Toward a stronger Internet 
<http://www.knightfoundation.org/blogs/knightblog/2014/2/27/toward-stronger-internet/>
, 27 February 2014 
 * Gigaom:  Europe’s net neutrality law gets breathing space as industry 
committee delays vote 
<http://gigaom.com/2014/02/25/europes-net-neutrality-law-gets-breathing-space-as-industry-committee-delays-vote/>
, 25 February 2014 
 * Gigaom:  Marc Andreessen says more net neutrality laws are not the answer 
<http://gigaom.com/2014/02/24/marc-andreessen-says-more-net-neutrality-laws-are-not-the-answer/>
, 24 February 2014 
 * Reuters:  Netflix to pay Comcast for faster speeds 
<http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/02/24/us-comcast-netflix-idUSBREA1M0X520140224>
, 24 February 2014 
W3C in the Press (or blogs)

10articles this week. Find keywords on our Press clippings 
<http://www.w3.org/Press/Articles>.

 * CircleID(26 February),  Papers Now Available Publicly for W3C/IAB 
“Strengthening the Internet” Workshop 
<http://www.circleid.com/posts/20140226_papers_available_for_w3c_iab_strengthening_the_internet_workshop/>
 * Heise online(26 February),  W3C aktualisiert Metadatenformat RDF 
<http://www.heise.de/newsticker/meldung/W3C-aktualisiert-Metadatenformat-RDF-2124627.html>
(W3C updated RDF metadata format) 
 * The Telegraph(25 February),  25 years of the World Wide Web: 25 Web 
superstars 
<http://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/internet/10665375/25-years-of-the-World-Wide-Web-25-Web-superstars.html>
 * Genbeta(25 February), ¿Qué ha sido de HTML5? 
<http://www.genbeta.com/web/que-ha-sido-de-html5>(What has become of HTML5?) 
 * The Register(25 February),  Evil or benign? ‘Trusted proxy’ draft debate 
rages on 
<http://www.theregister.co.uk/2014/02/25/evil_or_benign_trusted_proxy_draft_debate_rages_on/>
 * Faro de Vigo(25 February),  MWC14: Gallegos en la meca sundial de la 
tecnología 
<http://www.farodevigo.es/vida-y-estilo/tecnologia/2014/02/25/gallegos-meca-mundial-tecnologia/973883.html>
(MWC14: Galician in the world mecca of technology) 
 * ZDNet(24 February),  Servo: Inside Mozilla’s mission to reinvent the web 
browser for the multi-core age 
<http://www.zdnet.com/servo-inside-mozillas-mission-to-reinvent-the-web-browser-for-the-multi-core-age-7000026606/>
 * phoneArena.com(23 February),  Mozilla signs a deal to make the world’s 
cheapest smartphone: Firefox OS device with 3.5” screen and HTML5 apps 
<http://www.phonearena.com/news/Mozilla-signs-a-deal-to-make-the-worlds-cheapest-smartphone-25-Firefox-OS-device-with-3.5-screen-and-HTML5-apps_id52963>
 * La Stampa(21 February),  Il future della governance di Internet post 
Datagate: il Brasile dà l’esempio 
<http://www.lastampa.it/2014/02/21/tecnologia/il-futuro-della-governance-di-internet-post-datagate-il-brasile-d-lesempio-ErEm79auOLdCIXps70PdJL/pagina.html>
(The future of Internet governance after Datagate: Brazil leads the way) 
 Talks and Appearances  <>

None. See full list of W3C Talks and Appearances <>.

 Events  <> 

 * 2014-06-25 (25 JUN)  – 2014-06-26 (26 JUN) 
Workshop on the Web of Things <http://www.w3.org/2014/02/wot/> 

Berlin, Germany

Hosted by Siemens 

Participants in this workshop will examine the potential for open standards as 
a basis for services, either between devices, at the network edge, e.g. in home 
hubs, or in the cloud. They will discuss the use of web protocols and scripting 
languages for implementing services, the need for APIs for implementing drivers 
for specific IoT technologies, a shared approach to describing services as a 
basis for interoperability, and the underlying use of HTTP/COAP, Web Sockets, 
and EXI/JSON for RESTful services.

See full list of W3C Events <>.

Footer Navigation

Navigation

 * Home <>
 * Standards <>
 * Participate <>
 * Membership <>
 * About W3C <> 
Contact W3C

 * Contact <>
 * Help and FAQ <>
 * Donate <>
 * Site Map <>
 * Feedback <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/site-comments/> 
W3C Updates

 *  <http://twitter.com/W3C> 
Copyright © 2013 W3C ® (MIT <http://www.csail.mit.edu/>, ERCIM 
<http://www.ercim.eu/>, Keio <http://www.keio.ac.jp/>, Beihang 
<http://ev.buaa.edu.cn/>) Usage policies apply <>.
