Web Design and Applications - W3C 
 <> W3C

 * Standards <>
 * Participate <>
 * Membership <>
 * About W3C <>
 * 
Site Navigation

Standards  <>

 * Web Design and Applications <> 
 * Web Architecture <> 
 * Semantic Web <> 
 * XML Technology <> 
 * Web of Services <> 
 * Web of Devices <> 
 * Browsers and Authoring Tools <> 
 * All Standards and Drafts <> 
 * About W3C Standards <> 

 * Skip <> 
 * W3C <> » 
 * Standards <> » 
 * Web Design and Applications 
Web Design and Applications

 * On this page → 
 * technology topics <> • 
 * news <> • 
 * upcoming events and talks <> 
Web Design and Applications involve the standards for building and Rendering 
Web pages, including HTML, CSS, SVG, device APIs, and other technologies for 
Web Applications (“WebApps”). This section also includes information on how to 
make pages accessible to people with disabilities (WCAG), to internationalize 
them, and make them work on mobile devices.

HTML & CSS  <> 

 HTML and CSS are the fundamental technologies for building Web pages: HTML 
(html and xhtml) for structure, CSS for style and layout, including WebFonts. 
Find resources for good Web page design as well as helpful tools.

JavaScript Web APIs  <> 

 Standard APIs for client-side Web Application development include those for 
Geolocation, XMLHttpRequest, and mobile widgets. W3C standards for document 
models (the “DOM”) and technologies such as XBL allow content providers to 
create interactive documents through scripting.

Graphics  <> 

 W3C is the home of the widely deployed PNG raster format, SVG vector format, 
and the Canvas API. WebCGM is a more specialized format used, for example, in 
the fields of automotive engineering, aeronautics.

Audio and Video  <> 

 Some of the W3C formats that enable authoring audio and video presentations 
include HTML, SVG, and SMIL (for synchronization). W3C is also working on a 
timed text format for captioning and other applications.

Accessibility  <> 

 W3C’s Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) has published Web Content 
Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) to help authors create content that is 
accessible to people with disabilities. WAI-ARIA gives authors more tools to 
create accessible Web Applications by providing additional semantics about 
widgets and behaviors.

Internationalization  <> 

 W3C has a mission to design technology that works across cultures and 
languages. W3C standards such as HTML and XML are built on Unicode, for 
instance. In addition, W3C has published guidance for authors related to 
language tags bi-directional (bidi) text, and more.

Mobile Web  <> 

 W3C promotes “One Web” that is available on any device. W3C’s Mobile Web Best 
Practices help authors understand how to create content that provides a 
reasonable experience on a wide variety of devices, contexts, and locations.

Privacy  <> 

 The Web is a powerful tool for communications and transactions of all sorts. 
It is important to consider privacy and security implications of the Web as 
part of technology design. Learn more about tracking and Web App security.

Math on the Web  <> 

 Mathematics and formula are used on the Web for business reports, education 
materials and scientific research. W3C’s MathML enables mathematics to be 
served, received, and processed on the World Wide Web, just as HTML has enabled 
this functionality for other types of content.

News  <http://www.w3.org/standards/webdesign/news.xml>

 HTML5: On Our Way to Recommendation 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/2014/06/html5-on-our-way-to-recommendation/> 

17 June 2014 

from W3C HTML Working Group <http://www.w3.org/blog>

In 2012, the HTML Working Group Chairs came up with a plan to progress HTML, 
aka “ Plan 2014 <http://dev.w3.org/html5/decision-policy/html5-2014-plan.html>
“. The plan has several objectives:

 * Produce a W3C Recommendation for HTML 5.0 before the end of 2014, as well 
as a W3C Recommendation for HTML 5.1 before the end of 2016; 
 * Use the Candidate Recommendation of HTML5, which started in December 2012, 
to focus the testing effort where it is appropriate; 
 * Use modularity to manage the size and complexity of the specifications. 
Over the past 2 years, we have continued to refine and improve the HTML 5.0 
specification. The HTML Working Group receives and tracks proposals from a 
variety of people in the community, most prominently from the WHATWG. During 
the past 2 years, the HTML5 editors have worked with the community to exchange 
ideas and thus avoid divergence among specifications. TheHTML Landscape 
<http://www.w3.org/html/landscape/>lists the differences between various HTML 
specifications.

The HTML Working Group today has 97,000 tests for HTML5. As part of satisfying 
the W3C process requirements for Candidate Recommendation, we have tracked 
implementations of HTML5 features, and test results 
<http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-html/2014Jun/0002.html> today show 
that there are at least 2 implementations for 96.7% of the available tests. 
What about the other 3.3%? Those failures arise from how different browsers 
handle errors, and the Working Group has concluded that these failures do not 
reflect differences in implementations that will significantly affect 
interoperability of real-world running code. Following the test results, we 
removed several features from HTML 5.0 
<https://www.w3.org/Bugs/Public/show_bug.cgi?id=24812>due to their lack of 
implementations and stability, including the dialog element and scoped style 
sheet. Those features remain in the draft HTML 5.1 specification for the time 
being.

W3C would like to thank the community for helping to build this valuable test 
suite. The tests come from theTest the Web Forward 
<http://testthewebforward.org/> community effort and the contributors to the  
web-platform-tests <https://github.com/w3c/web-platform-tests/> github 
repository, and we strongly encourage Web developers to continue to contribute 
to the testing effort and help make the Open Web Platform reliable. At the 
moment, the HTML Working Group is specifically looking for additional HTML 5.0 
tests related to media elements 
<http://www.w3.org/TR/html5/embedded-content-0.html#media-elements> and  page 
navigation <http://www.w3.org/TR/html5/browsers.html#browsing-the-web>.

As  planned 
<http://dev.w3.org/html5/decision-policy/html5-2014-plan.html#html5.0-milestones>
, given the substantive changes made to the document, we’re returning HTML 5.0 
to Last Call. The scope of the expected feedback at this point is limited to 
changes that have taken place during the Candidate Recommendation phase and the 
deadline is 15 July 2014. Once we have addressed the Last Call comments and 
finalize the test suite, we expect to move the document to Proposed 
Recommendation in the fall. A few features may be removed from HTML 5.0 but 
kept in HTML 5.1 if we can’t get enough implementations: the DataCue interface, 
<input type=time>, drag and drop, and the new ruby model.

Advancing HTML 5.0 towards Recommendation status is just one step in advancing 
the Open Web Platform, a full-fledged programming environment for rich, 
interactive, cross-platform applications, with HTML5 at its core. Several 
Groups are extending the HTML markup language, including for responsive design, 
performance, accessibility or additional security purposes. The HTML Working 
Group, the W3C Technical Architecture Group and the Web Applications Working 
Group, are looking to have an Extensible Web Summit in the middle of September 
where we will discuss the future of HTML. We expect a formal announcement in 
early July.

 Announcing The Unicode Standard, Version 7.0 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/06/17/announcing-the-unicode-standard-version-7-0/>

17 June 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebDesign 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>



Version 7.0 of the Unicode Standard 
<http://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode7.0.0/>is now available, adding 2,834 
new characters. This latest version adds the new currency symbols for the 
Russian ruble and Azerbaijani manat, approximately 250 emoji (pictographic 
symbols), many other symbols, and 23 new lesser-used and historic scripts, as 
well as character additions to many existing scripts. These additions extend 
support for written languages of North America, China, India, other Asian 
countries, and Africa. See the link above for full details.

Most of the new emoji characters derive from characters in long-standing and 
widespread use in Wingdings and Webdings fonts.

Major enhancements were made to the Indic script properties. New property 
values were added to enable a more algorithmic approach to rendering Indic 
scripts. These include properties for joining behavior, new classes for 
numbers, and a further division of the syllabic categories of viramas and 
rephas. With these enhancements, the default rendering for newly added Indic 
scripts can be significantly improved.

Unicode character properties were extended to the new characters. The old 
characters have enhancements to Script and Alphabetic properties, and casing 
and line-breaking behavior. There were also nearly 3,000 new Cantonese 
pronunciation entries, as well as new or clarified stability policies for 
promoting interoperable implementations.

Two other important Unicode specifications are maintained in synchrony with 
the Unicode Standard, and have updates for Version 7.0. These will be released 
at the same time:

UTS #10, Unicode Collation Algorithm 
<http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr10/tr10-30.html>— the standard for sorting 
Unicode text
UTS #46, Unicode IDNA Compatibility Processing 
<http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr46/tr46-13.html>— for processing of non-ASCII 
URLs (IDNs)

 Workshop report: Summary of the LD4LT group kickoff / LIDER roadmapping 
workshop 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/06/11/workshop-report-summary-of-the-ld4lt-group-kickoff-lider-roadmapping-workshop/>

11 June 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebDesign 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>

The LIDER project <http://www.lider-project.eu/> has published a report on the 
firstLinked Data for Language Technology <https://www.w3.org/community/ld4lt/> 
event, which was held 21st March in alignment with the European Data Forum in 
Athens. Read the report 
<http://www.lider-project.eu/doc/d45-first-roadmapping-workshop-athens-v11>.

Industry stakeholders from many areas (localization, publishing, language 
technology applications etc.) and key researchers from linked data and language 
technology discussed promises and challenges around linguistic linked data. The 
report summarizes all presentations and includes an initial list of use cases 
and requirements for linguistic linked data. This and the overall outcome of 
the event will feed into work of theLD4LT <http://www.w3.org/community/ld4lt/> 
group (see especially the LD4LT latest draft version of use cases 
<https://www.w3.org/community/ld4lt/wiki/Seed_Use_Cases>), and the field of 
multilingual linked data in general.

The LD4LT group <http://www.w3.org/community/ld4lt/> is part of the 
MultilingualWeb community – learn more aboutrelated projects 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/projects/>.

 Last Call draft published for Encoding spec 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/06/06/last-call-draft-published-for-encoding-spec/>

06 June 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebDesign 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>

A Last Call Working Draft of  Encoding 
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2014/WD-encoding-20140603/>has been published.

While encodings have been defined to some extent, implementations have not 
always implemented them in the same way, have not always used the same labels, 
and often differ in dealing with undefined and former proprietary areas of 
encodings. This specification attempts to fill those gaps so that new 
implementations do not have to reverse engineer encoding implementations of the 
market leaders and existing implementations can converge.

The body of this spec is an exact copy of the WHATWG version as of the date of 
its publication, intended to provide a stable reference for other 
specifications. We are hoping for people to review the specification and send 
comments about any technical areas that need attention (see the Status section 
for details).

Please send comments by 1 July 2014.

 Updates to two Working Group Notes published 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/06/06/updates-to-two-working-group-notes-published/>

06 June 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebDesign 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>

 Authoring HTML: Handling Right-to-left Scripts 
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2014/NOTE-i18n-html-tech-bidi-20140603/> and  Authoring 
HTML: Language declarations 
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2014/NOTE-i18n-html-tech-lang-20140603/>have both been 
updated to a new format that lists do’s and don’ts, but points to existing or 
new articles for detailed information. This will significantly help in keeping 
the material up to date in the future as technology changes. The documents have 
also been thoroughly overhauled to reflect the latest changes and information on

The first document provides advice to content authors using HTML markup and 
CSS style sheets about how to create pages for languages that use right-to-left 
scripts, such as Arabic, Hebrew, Persian, Thaana, Urdu, etc. It explains how to 
create content in right-to-left scripts that builds on but goes beyond the 
Unicode bidirectional algorithm, as well as how to prepare content for 
localization into right-to-left scripts.

The second helps content authors specify the language of content, which is 
useful for a wide number of applications, from linguistically-sensitive 
searching to applying language-specific display properties. In some cases the 
potential applications for language information are still waiting for 
implementations to catch up, whereas in others it is a necessity today. Adding 
markup for language information to content is something that can and should be 
done now and as content is first developed. If not, it will be much more 
difficult to take advantage of any future developments.

 Last week: WebRTC, Net Neutrality, HTML5 advertising defeats Flash, etc. 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/2014/06/last-week-webrtc-net-neutrality-html5-advertising-defeats-flash-etc/>

02 June 2014 

from W3C HTML Working Group <http://www.w3.org/blog>

This is the 26 May – 2 June 2014edition of a “weekly digest of W3C news and 
trends” that I prepare for the W3C Membership and public-w3c-digest 
<mailto:public-w3c-digest-request@w3.org?subject=subscribe> mailing list 
(publicly archived <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-w3c-digest/>). 
This digest aggregates information about W3C and W3C technology from online 
media —a snapshot of how W3C and its work is perceived in online media. 

W3C and HTML5 related Twitter trends

[What was tweeted frequently, or caught my attention. Most recentfirst 
(popularity is flagged with a figure —number of times the same URIs or tweet 
was quoted/RTed.)] 

 * ( 23) First Public Working Drafts: W3C HTML Form HTTP Extensions, W3C HTML 
JSON Form Submission <http://www.w3.org/blog/news/archives/3865> 
 * ( 43) Upcoming: Web.br 2014. Conferência Web W3C Brasil 
<http://conferenciaweb.w3c.br/> 
 * ( 65) HTML5:  HTML5 Pokémon 
<http://www.slideshare.net/Berttimmermans/gotta-code-them-all-a-pokmon-and-html5-lovestory>
 * ( 447) PureMarketing:  La Publicidad HTML5 derrota a los tradicionales 
anuncios en Flash 
<http://www.puromarketing.com/25/22260/publicidad-html-derrota-tradicionales-anuncios-flash.html>
(HTML5 advertising defeats traditional ads in Flash) 
Open Web & net neutrality

 * Quartz:  When net neutrality backfires: Chile just killed free access to 
Wikipedia and Facebook 
<http://qz.com/215064/when-net-neutrality-backfires-chile-just-killed-free-access-to-wikipedia-and-facebook/#/h/73014,1/>
, 30 May 
 * CNET:  Bored by the Net neutrality debate? Check it as a rap battle 
<http://www.cnet.com/news/bored-by-the-net-neutrality-debate-check-it-as-a-rap-battle/>
, 26 May 
W3C in the Press (or blogs)

7articles since the 26-May Digest; a selection follows. You may read all 
articles in ourPress Clippings <http://www.w3.org/Press/Articles>page.

 * Light Reading(2 June),  What WebRTC Means for Telcos 
<http://www.lightreading.com/spit-%28service-provider-it%29/webrtc/what-webrtc-means-for-telcos/d/d-id/709229?f_src=lightreading_editorspicks_rss_latest>
 * SD Times(30 May),  SD Times 100: The Elements of Success 
<http://www.sdtimes.com/content/article.aspx?ArticleID=71295&page=6> 
 * The Register(29 May),  ‘Hello? Hello? Yes, I’m calling you on my WEB 
BROWSER’ <http://www.theregister.co.uk/2014/05/29/mozilla_browser_video_chat/> 
 * CIO(28 May),  Can Digital Rights Management and the Open Web Coexist? 
<http://www.cio.com.au/article/546199/can_digital_rights_management_open_web_coexist_/>
 One more week to FEISGILTT – learn about and contribute to the future of Web 
and localization standards! 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/05/28/one-more-week-to-feisgiltt-learn-about-and-contribute-to-the-future-of-web-and-localization-standards/>

28 May 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebDesign 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>

On 4 June and as part of the Localization World conference in Dublin, the  
FEISGILTT event <http://www.localizationworld.com/lwdub2014/feisgiltt/> will 
again provide an opportunity to discuss latest developments around localization 
and multilingual Web technologies. The event is sponsored by theLIDER project 
<http://lider-project.eu/>.

Highlights include updates about ITS 2.0 and XLIFF 2.0, and a session about 
usage scenarios for linguistic linked data in localization. Speakers include 
Kevin O’Donnell (Microsoft), Bryan Schnabel (Tektronix), Yves Savourel (Enlaso) 
and many more.

Register now <>to meet the key players around standards that will influence 
today’s and future business.

 Last week: EmotionML is a Recommendation, Specifiction, TimBL at the Webbys, 
Web Cryptography, etc. 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/2014/05/last-week-emotionml-is-a-recommendation-specifiction-timbl-at-the-webbys-web-cryptography-etc/>

28 May 2014 

from W3C HTML Working Group <http://www.w3.org/blog>

This is the 19-26 May 2014edition of a “weekly digest of W3C news and trends” 
that I prepare for the W3C Membership and public-w3c-digest 
<mailto:public-w3c-digest-request@w3.org?subject=subscribe> mailing list 
(publicly archived <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-w3c-digest/>). 
This digest aggregates information about W3C and W3C technology from online 
media —a snapshot of how W3C and its work is perceived in online media. 

W3C and HTML5 related Twitter trends

[What was tweeted frequently, or caught my attention. Most recentfirst 
(popularity is flagged with a figure —number of times the same URIs or tweet 
was quoted/RTed.)] 

 * ( 82) Specifiction: Experimenting with new ways of discussing standards 
with aDiscourse instance <http://discourse.specifiction.org/>[initiative of 
Robin Berjon] 
 * ( 66) Spec: Emotion Markup Language (EmotionML) 1.0 is a W3C Recommendation 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/news/archives/3861> 
 * ( 616) TechCrunch:  AppGyver Launches Composer, A Drag-And-Drop Tool For 
Building HTML5 Apps 
<http://techcrunch.com/2014/05/22/appgyver-launches-composer-a-drag-and-drop-tool-for-building-html5-apps/>
 * ( 20) Glyn Moody:  Upcoming Workshop on Web Cryptography Next Steps 
<http://twitter.com/glynmoody/status/468673496714063872> 
 * ( 31) Web Cryptography API:  Extractable keys 
<https://www.w3.org/Bugs/Public/show_bug.cgi?id=25721>[buzgilla] 
 * ( 31) Yale: Creator of the World Wide Web @timberners_lee receives Honorary 
Doctor of Engineering & Technology. #Yale2014 @w3c 
<http://twitter.com/Yale/status/468410018920816640> 
Open Web & net neutrality

 * Webby Awards 2014:  Sir Tim Berners-Lee’s remarks 
<http://www.webat25.org/thewebbyawards/tim-berners-lee-at-the-webby-awards> on 
the history and the future of the Web, including “Up to us.”, a plea for Net 
Neutrality (21 May 2014) 
W3C in the Press (or blogs)

1article since the 19-May Digest. You may read all articles in our Press 
Clippings <http://www.w3.org/Press/Articles>page.

 * NYTimes.com | Bits(21 May),  California Urges Websites to Disclose Online 
Tracking 
<http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/05/21/california-urges-websites-to-disclose-online-tracking/>
 Last week: Mozilla implements EME, Draft charter of Web Payments Interest 
Group, W3C Advisory Board election, etc. 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/2014/05/last-week-mozilla-implements-eme-draft-charter-of-web-payments-interest-group-w3c-advisory-board-election-etc/>

19 May 2014 

from W3C HTML Working Group <http://www.w3.org/blog>

This is the 9-19 May 2014edition of a “weekly digest of W3C news and trends” 
that I prepare for the W3C Membership and public-w3c-digest 
<mailto:public-w3c-digest-request@w3.org?subject=subscribe> mailing list 
(publicly archived <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-w3c-digest/>). 
This digest aggregates information about W3C and W3C technology from online 
media —a snapshot of how W3C and its work is perceived in online media. 

W3C and HTML5 related Twitter trends

[What was tweeted frequently, or caught my attention. Most recentfirst 
(popularity is flagged with a figure —number of times the same URIs or tweet 
was quoted/RTed.)] 

 * ( 34) EME:  Open Letter on European Commission about DRM in HTML5 
<http://fsfe.org/activities/drm/open-letter-ec-drm-html.en.html> 
 * ( 13) Web Payments:  First draft of future web payments interest group 
charter published 
<http://www.w3.org/community/webpaymentsigcharter/2014/05/15/first-draft-of-future-web-payments-interest-group-charter-published/>
 * ( 42) W3C AB:  Boaz Sender running for the W3C Advisory Board 
<http://boazsender.com/2014-05-14-running-for-the-w3c-advisory-board.html> 
 * ( 4.7K) Event: Global Accessibility Awareness Day 
<http://globalaccessibilityawarenessday.org/>. More results on #GAAD 
<http://topsy.com/s?q=%23GAAD> 
 * ( 928) EFF: Can This Web Be Saved? Mozilla Accepts DRM, and We All Lose 
<https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2014/05/mozilla-and-drm> 
 * ( 906) Mozilla:  Reconciling Mozilla’s Mission and the W3C EME 
<https://hacks.mozilla.org/2014/05/reconciling-mozillas-mission-and-w3c-eme/> 
 * ( 15) W3C Business Group:  First Draft of Vehicle Data Interfaces published 
by Automotive and Web Platform Business Group 
<http://www.w3.org/community/autowebplatform/2014/05/14/first-draft-of-vehicle-data-interfaces-published-by-automotive-and-web-platform-business-group/>
 * ( 66) CSS: Grid Layout Module Level 1, Generated Content for Paged Media 
Module Drafts published <http://www.w3.org/blog/news/archives/3843> 
Open Web & net neutrality

 * The Verge:  The real battle for net neutrality just began 
<http://www.theverge.com/2014/5/15/5717928/fcc-votes-on-net-neutrality-proposal-in-may-meeting>
(15 May 2014), Adi Robertson 
 * Gizmodo:  So Long, Open Web: Mozilla Accepts Closed Source DRM and We All 
Lose 
<http://gizmodo.com/so-long-open-web-mozilla-accepts-closed-source-drm-an-1576746922>
(15 May 2014), Danny O’Brien – EFF 
 * Boston Globe:  FCC plan guts net neutrality; open Web needs protection 
<http://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/editorials/2014/05/13/fcc-plan-guts-net-neutrality-open-web-needs-protection/BCnfi9sEIYBVQcFdI7utpJ/story.html>
(14 May 2014), 
W3C in the Press (or blogs)

6articles since the previous Digest, all about Mozilla implementing EME. You 
may read them in ourPress Clippings <http://www.w3.org/Press/Articles>page.

 Slides for the MultilingualWeb and LIDER workshops available 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/05/15/slides-for-the-multilingualweb-and-lider-workshops-available/>

15 May 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cWebDesign 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>



The slides from the  MultilingualWeb workshop 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-program>
 (including several posters) and the LIDER roadmapping workshop 
<https://www.w3.org/community/ld4lt/wiki/LD4LT_Group_Madrid_May_2014_Meeting>
are now available for download. Additional material (videos of the 
presentations, a workshop report and more) will follow in the next weeks – stay 
tuned.

 Talks and Appearances  <>

 * 
2014-09-25 (25 SEP)

Crafting User Experience for the Fastest Growing Web Demographic: Older Users

 by Shawn Henry

WebVisions Chicago <http://www.webvisionsevent.com/chicago/>

Chicago, IL, USA

See also the full list of W3C Talks and Appearances <>.

 Events  <> 

 * 2014-08-27 (27 AUG)  – 2014-08-30 (30 AUG) 
The Graphical Web <http://www.graphicalweb.org/2014/> 

Winchester, England

The conference has expanded this year to invite technical presentations about 
the implementation and usage of a number of technologies being developed at 
W3C, such as SVG, Canvas, CSS and HTML5 audio/video.

See full list of W3C Events <>.

Footer Navigation

Navigation

 * Home <>
 * Standards <>
 * Participate <>
 * Membership <>
 * About W3C <> 
Contact W3C

 * Contact <>
 * Help and FAQ <>
 * Sponsor / Donate <>
 * Site Map <>
 * Feedback <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/site-comments/> 
W3C Updates

 *  <http://twitter.com/W3C> 
Copyright © 2013 W3C ® (MIT <http://www.csail.mit.edu/>, ERCIM 
<http://www.ercim.eu/>, Keio <http://www.keio.ac.jp/>, Beihang 
<http://ev.buaa.edu.cn/>) Usage policies apply <>.
