XML Technology - W3C 
 <> W3C

 * Standards <>
 * Participate <>
 * Membership <>
 * About W3C <>
 * 
Site Navigation

Standards  <>

 * Web Design and Applications <> 
 * Web Architecture <> 
 * Semantic Web <> 
 * XML Technology <> 
 * Web of Services <> 
 * Web of Devices <> 
 * Browsers and Authoring Tools <> 
 * All Standards and Drafts <> 
 * About W3C Standards <> 

 * Skip <> 
 * W3C <> » 
 * Standards <> » 
 * XML Technology 
XML Technology

 * On this page → 
 * technology topics <> • 
 * news <> • 
 * upcoming events and talks <> 
XML Technologies including XML, XML Namespaces, XML Schema, XSLT, Efficient 
XML Interchange (EXI), and other related standards.

XML Essentials  <> 

 XML is shouldered by a set of essential technologies such as the infoset and 
namespaces. They address issues when using XML in specific applications 
contexts.

Schema  <> 

 Formal descriptions of vocabularies create flexibility in authoring 
environments and quality control chains. W3C’s XML Schema, SML, and data 
binding technologies provide the tools for quality control of XML data.

Security  <> 

 Manipulating data with XML requires sometimes integrity, authentication and 
privacy. XML signature, encryption, and xkms can help create a secure 
environment for XML.

Transformation  <> 

 Very frequently one wants to transform XML content into other formats 
(including other XML formats). XSLT and XPath are very powerful tools for 
creating different representations of XML content.

Query  <> 

 XQuery (supported by XPath) is a query language for XML to extract data, 
similar to the role of SQL for databases, or SPARQL for the Semantic Web.

Components  <> 

 The XML ecosystem is using additional tools to create a richer environment 
for using and manipulating XML documents. These components include style 
sheets, xlink xml:id, xinclude, xpointer, xforms, xml fragments, and events.

Processing  <> 

 A processing model defines what operations should be performed in what order 
on an XML document.

Internationalization  <> 

 W3C has worked with the community on the internationalization of XML, for 
instance for specifying the language of XML content.

Publishing  <> 

 XML grew out of the technical publication community. Use XSL-FO to publish 
even large or complex multilingual XML documents to HTML, PDF or other formats; 
include SVG diagrams and MathML formulas in the output.

News  <http://www.w3.org/standards/xml/news.xml>

 Announcing The Unicode Standard, Version 7.0 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/06/17/announcing-the-unicode-standard-version-7-0/>

17 June 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>



Version 7.0 of the Unicode Standard 
<http://www.unicode.org/versions/Unicode7.0.0/>is now available, adding 2,834 
new characters. This latest version adds the new currency symbols for the 
Russian ruble and Azerbaijani manat, approximately 250 emoji (pictographic 
symbols), many other symbols, and 23 new lesser-used and historic scripts, as 
well as character additions to many existing scripts. These additions extend 
support for written languages of North America, China, India, other Asian 
countries, and Africa. See the link above for full details.

Most of the new emoji characters derive from characters in long-standing and 
widespread use in Wingdings and Webdings fonts.

Major enhancements were made to the Indic script properties. New property 
values were added to enable a more algorithmic approach to rendering Indic 
scripts. These include properties for joining behavior, new classes for 
numbers, and a further division of the syllabic categories of viramas and 
rephas. With these enhancements, the default rendering for newly added Indic 
scripts can be significantly improved.

Unicode character properties were extended to the new characters. The old 
characters have enhancements to Script and Alphabetic properties, and casing 
and line-breaking behavior. There were also nearly 3,000 new Cantonese 
pronunciation entries, as well as new or clarified stability policies for 
promoting interoperable implementations.

Two other important Unicode specifications are maintained in synchrony with 
the Unicode Standard, and have updates for Version 7.0. These will be released 
at the same time:

UTS #10, Unicode Collation Algorithm 
<http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr10/tr10-30.html>— the standard for sorting 
Unicode text
UTS #46, Unicode IDNA Compatibility Processing 
<http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr46/tr46-13.html>— for processing of non-ASCII 
URLs (IDNs)

 Workshop report: Summary of the LD4LT group kickoff / LIDER roadmapping 
workshop 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/06/11/workshop-report-summary-of-the-ld4lt-group-kickoff-lider-roadmapping-workshop/>

11 June 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>

The LIDER project <http://www.lider-project.eu/> has published a report on the 
firstLinked Data for Language Technology <https://www.w3.org/community/ld4lt/> 
event, which was held 21st March in alignment with the European Data Forum in 
Athens. Read the report 
<http://www.lider-project.eu/doc/d45-first-roadmapping-workshop-athens-v11>.

Industry stakeholders from many areas (localization, publishing, language 
technology applications etc.) and key researchers from linked data and language 
technology discussed promises and challenges around linguistic linked data. The 
report summarizes all presentations and includes an initial list of use cases 
and requirements for linguistic linked data. This and the overall outcome of 
the event will feed into work of theLD4LT <http://www.w3.org/community/ld4lt/> 
group (see especially the LD4LT latest draft version of use cases 
<https://www.w3.org/community/ld4lt/wiki/Seed_Use_Cases>), and the field of 
multilingual linked data in general.

The LD4LT group <http://www.w3.org/community/ld4lt/> is part of the 
MultilingualWeb community – learn more aboutrelated projects 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/projects/>.

 Last Call draft published for Encoding spec 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/06/06/last-call-draft-published-for-encoding-spec/>

06 June 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>

A Last Call Working Draft of  Encoding 
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2014/WD-encoding-20140603/>has been published.

While encodings have been defined to some extent, implementations have not 
always implemented them in the same way, have not always used the same labels, 
and often differ in dealing with undefined and former proprietary areas of 
encodings. This specification attempts to fill those gaps so that new 
implementations do not have to reverse engineer encoding implementations of the 
market leaders and existing implementations can converge.

The body of this spec is an exact copy of the WHATWG version as of the date of 
its publication, intended to provide a stable reference for other 
specifications. We are hoping for people to review the specification and send 
comments about any technical areas that need attention (see the Status section 
for details).

Please send comments by 1 July 2014.

 One more week to FEISGILTT – learn about and contribute to the future of Web 
and localization standards! 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/05/28/one-more-week-to-feisgiltt-learn-about-and-contribute-to-the-future-of-web-and-localization-standards/>

28 May 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>

On 4 June and as part of the Localization World conference in Dublin, the  
FEISGILTT event <http://www.localizationworld.com/lwdub2014/feisgiltt/> will 
again provide an opportunity to discuss latest developments around localization 
and multilingual Web technologies. The event is sponsored by theLIDER project 
<http://lider-project.eu/>.

Highlights include updates about ITS 2.0 and XLIFF 2.0, and a session about 
usage scenarios for linguistic linked data in localization. Speakers include 
Kevin O’Donnell (Microsoft), Bryan Schnabel (Tektronix), Yves Savourel (Enlaso) 
and many more.

Register now <>to meet the key players around standards that will influence 
today’s and future business.

 Slides for the MultilingualWeb and LIDER workshops available 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/05/15/slides-for-the-multilingualweb-and-lider-workshops-available/>

15 May 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>



The slides from the  MultilingualWeb workshop 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-program>
 (including several posters) and the LIDER roadmapping workshop 
<https://www.w3.org/community/ld4lt/wiki/LD4LT_Group_Madrid_May_2014_Meeting>
are now available for download. Additional material (videos of the 
presentations, a workshop report and more) will follow in the next weeks – stay 
tuned.

 MultilingualWeb workshop 7-8 May – follow via live stream! 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/05/06/multilingualweb-workshop-7-8-may-follow-via-live-stream/>

06 May 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>



The MultilingualWeb workshop on 7-8 May will be  streamed live 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-program#streaming-info>
 ! Follow the event online if you cannot make it to Madrid. For details about 
speakers and presentations see the workshop program 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-program>
 . The workshop is supported by theLIDER <http://lider-project.eu/> project and 
sponsored byVerisign <http://www.verisign.com/> and Lionbridge 
<http://www.lionbridge.com/>.

 Program published for W3C MultilingualWeb Workshop in Madrid, 7-8 May 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/04/11/program-published-for-w3c-multilingualweb-workshop-in-madrid-7-8-may/>

11 April 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>



 See the program. 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-program>
The keynote speaker will be Alolita Sharma, Director of Language Engineering 
from the Wikimedia Foundation. She is followed by a strong line up in sessions 
entitled Developers, Creators, Localizers, Machines, and Users, including 
speakers from Microsoft, Wikimedia Foundation, the UN FAO, W3C, Yandex, SDL, 
Lionbridge, Asia Pacific TLD, Verisign, DFKI, and many more. On the afternoon 
of the second day we will hold Open Space breakout discussions. Abstracts and 
details about an additional poster session will be provided shortly.

The program will also feature an  LD4LT event on May 8-9 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/ld4lt-rm-workshop/>
, focusing on text analytics and the usefulness of Wikipedia and Dbpedia for 
multiilngual text and content analytics, and on language resources and aspects 
of converting selected types of language resources into RDF.

Participation in both events is free. See the  Call for Participation 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-cfp#participate>
 for details about how to register for the MultilingualWeb workshop. The LD4LT 
event requires a separate registration 
<https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/1/lider-rmws-20140508-09/>and you have the 
opportunity to submit position statements about language resources and RDF.

If you haven’t registered yet, note that space is limited, so please be sure 
to register soon to ensure that you get a place.

The MultilingualWeb workshops, funded by the European Commission and 
coordinated by the W3C, look at best practices and standards related to all 
aspects of creating, localizing and deploying the multilingual Web. The 
workshops are successful because they attract a wide range of participants, 
from fields such as localization, language technology, browser development, 
content authoring and tool development, etc., to create a holistic view of the 
interoperability needs of the multilingual Web.

We look forward to seeing you in Madrid!

 Registration for Workshop on Linked Data, Language Technologies and 
Multilingual Content Analytics now open! 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/04/04/registration-for-workshop-on-linked-data-language-technologies-and-multilingual-content-analytics-now-open/>

04 April 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>



Register now for the recently announced <> workshop on Linked Data, Language 
Technologies and Multilingual Content Analytics (8-9 May, Madrid). A 
preliminary agenda 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/ld4lt-rm-workshop/>
 has been created and theregistration form <>is available.

If you are interested in contributing a position statement please indicate 
this in the dedicated field in the registration form. The workshop organizers 
will come back to you with questions to answer in the position statement. We 
then will select which statements are appropriate for presentations on 9 May, 
and inform you by 28 April.

We are looking forward to see you in Madrid, both for this event and the  
MultilingualWeb workshop 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-cfp>!

 Updated article: Choosing & applying a character encoding 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/04/01/updated-article-choosing-applying-a-character-encoding/>

01 April 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>

 This update <http://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-choosing-encodings>
brings the article in line with recent developments in HTML5, and reorganizes 
the material so that readers can find information more quickly. This led to the 
article being almost completely rewritten.

The article addresses the question: Which character encoding should I use for 
my content, and how do I apply it to my content?

German, Spanish, Brazilian Portuguese, Russian, Swedish and Ukrainian 
translators are asked to update their translation of this article within the 
next month, otherwise the translations will be removed per the translation 
policy, since the changes are substantive.

 Speaker deadline for Madrid MultilingualWeb Workshop is Friday, March 14 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International/2014/03/05/speaker-deadline-for-madrid-multilingualweb-workshop-is-friday-march-14/>

05 March 2014 

from  Internationalization Activity Blog » w3cXMLCore 
<http://www.w3.org/blog/International>

We would like to remind you that the deadline for speaker proposals for the 
7th MultilingualWeb Workshop (May 7–8, 2014, Madrid, Spain) is on Friday, March 
14, at 23:59 UTC.

Featuring a keynote by Alolita Sharma (Director of Engineering, Wikipedia) and 
breakout sessions on linked open data and other critical topics, this Workshop 
will focus on the advances and challenges faced in making the Web truly 
multilingual. It provides an outstanding and influential forum for thought 
leaders to share their ideas and gain critical feedback.

While the organizers have already received many excellent submissions, there 
is still time to make a proposal, and we encourage interested parties to do so 
by the deadline. With roughly 200 attendees anticipated for the Workshop from a 
wide variety of profiles, we are certain to have a large and diverse audience 
that can provide constructive and useful feedback, with stimulating discussion 
about all of the presentations.

For more information and to register, please visit the Madrid Workshop  Call 
for Participation 
<http://www.multilingualweb.eu/documents/2014-madrid-workshop/2014-madrid-cfp>.

 Talks and Appearances  <>

None. See full list of W3C Talks and Appearances <>.

 Events  <> 

None. See full list of W3C Events <>.

Footer Navigation

Navigation

 * Home <>
 * Standards <>
 * Participate <>
 * Membership <>
 * About W3C <> 
Contact W3C

 * Contact <>
 * Help and FAQ <>
 * Sponsor / Donate <>
 * Site Map <>
 * Feedback <http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/site-comments/> 
W3C Updates

 *  <http://twitter.com/W3C> 
Copyright © 2010 W3C ® (MIT <http://www.csail.mit.edu/>, ERCIM 
<http://www.ercim.eu/>, Keio <http://www.keio.ac.jp/>, Beihang 
<http://ev.buaa.edu.cn/>) Usage policies apply <>.
